Precious Plastics

Shredders?

Oven?

What did you do? Do you have any examples?

What did you try to make?

Production wise, what were your struggles?

Are you interested in getting back into this?

Molds? Did you get that far? What did you try to use?

Precious plastics design had way tooo large of teeth.
Need slow, but high torque motor...
Amanda sees that a lot of people hack paper shredders instead...
Used an instructables tutorial to hack the shredder, sending in an email

You only need the small chips if you are injection molding

Would just buy molds at savers and stuff to press things into

Photo transfer iron, parchment paper on a sheet of wood...

Baking it in the oven...

Tried panini presses; don't work well unless you hack it with a temperature control so that you can really dial in the right temperature for working it

Sort of a big hot plate -- like a 20x15 hot plate; just a metal lid that presses down on that...

If you can get some big chunks as source material you can do a lot of hand work on the chunks!

They didn't like working with PET unless you can get way more pro equipment wise

They found HDPE to be the easiest to get started with; good 

Injection molding needs a lot of force; so a "plunger" design needs a lot of leverage
Worm screws... 

Oven press seems like its the easiest thing to make easy and mess around with > again, you can make it simple and then just use it to make raw materials to make other things from!?

Calculating the plunging force is important you need way more than you think; heating the molds makes this easier too

Amanda had the most success with just using her oven and then just hand pressing into things

Aluminum molds on the CNC; just using a small over to melt the plastic into them; 

Constant force on both parts of the mold; even reliable heat...

Hot plates work okay, but not great -- you need a lot of work to reinforce a store bought/found thing...

The cool things about say injection molding is that if you can get it made.... Its soooooo much faster and higher fidelity!

Just fun to play around with as a material -- how to use it as a formal material? Painterly raw plastic melting!? Fun composition workshop.

Not impressed with the vertical lever pull injection molder from PP