Speed + Speculation.

We’ve spent time over the term talking about various aspects of time, speed, motion, narrative, etc., but now I want you to think about how “time + motion” as concepts have changed your design work this term. If you need some help with where to start, think about the different readings we’ve done (and the new readings I've assigned) and the various ways we’ve discussed what time and motion are. Think about the examples we’ve looked at: what of the Motion Graphics that we’ve examined stand out to you as good examples embodying the principles of good design AND time and/or motion? and specifically how SPEED might be important in that understanding? here are the physical aspects of speed: more and faster cars; speedier trains; what do we see when we look at airplanes or drones?  the pace of creation is always increasing; aesthetic obsolescence has become a serious problem. If we have driverless, automated cars, we’d have more time to gaze out windows or stare at our screens while hurtling down the road — what does that mean for design? how does that change how things look or how we experience a place or an object? We consume data and content more rapidly — do smart phones, smart watches, etc. have slower or faster effects on the way we might think about accessing (and designing) content? Are there certain aesthetics that are fast or slow?  Are there certain techniques that are fast or slow? Is a specific typeface more indicative of "speed" than another? How can you design your work to embody your thoughts on speed?


»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»

Time and motion in design are about changing things. This could be an animation, a responsive website, any sequence of pages or images, whatever. The definition of “Motion” that is most useful for a designer is “change over time.” Fastness or Slowness is then about how quickly a change over time might happen. If that change is something formal, like a color becoming another color, fastness or slowness might just affect a feeling a viewer gets. Expanding that idea of change to something like behavior could also relate to fastness or slowness in design being related to how quickly or slowly someone can read or understand. Even immutable stubbornness can be a change. Nothing changing over time is still a kind of motion. These things are interconnected — time, motion, design. Everything is motion design.

Speculation is about looking into the future and describing a possible outcome. This outcome can be fantastical, practical, whatever. This outcome is likely critical. Speculation allows for analysis, research, critique. You provide an alternate viewpoint to what we expect.

Chosen outcomes for this project, Speed + Speculation, should explore how fastness or slowness in changes over time can tell us something about how design works, how design looks.

»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»

1. Project Assigned. Read and ponder the provided documents. 

2. Come up with some thoughts on how “Time + Motion” and “Speed” have relationships to your Design work. Speculate on future

3. Attempt writing those thoughts coherently in a short essay.

4. Find a form that properly explores, illustrates, or explains those thoughts.

5. Iterate and refine your ideas and formal outcomes.

6. Impress me with how your thoughts and the visual execution of those thoughts intermingle.

»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»

Reliable directions:
- slowing the viewer through intentional obstruction/decoding/friction
- spreading something that's fast (social media/internet/the endless scroll) into something that's slow (printed media)
- speeding the viewer by removing obstacles/forcing consumption
- slowing the viewer by fostering interaction/investment
- speeding creation of design through providing “style” tools

»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»»

Students will demonstrate skill in producing work with standard tools and techniques for time-based media and motion graphics.
Students will identify fundamental principles of design for time based media such as sequencing, transitioning, pacing, timing and rhythm
Students will demonstrate strategic thinking about motion and its role in storytelling 
Students will experiment with formal and conceptual fundamentals for the design of motion graphics
Students will incorporate the language of motion as a design principle 
Students will develop a working process for the design of motion graphics
