If you just say, oh, but like Christian, you're not my professor, it's only this, you'll be in trouble.
So like, you know, you have to ask a real lawyer and don't just take my word for these things.
But if you do take my word, you won't get into legal trouble in the first place, hopefully.
Okay.
I'm going to tell you two stories.
There's like fairy tales, if you will.
One's called the myth of the author and one's called the myth of the comments.
I wrote these specifically for this presentation, so I hope to impress you.
This is the myth of the author.
In the land of creativity, lived authors, magical beings who could pull down original creations right out of the ether and give them form.
Authors then protected their powerful creations by locking them away in towers like Rapunzel.
Only through permission granted through extreme offering and sacrifice to the authors would they allow their creations to be accessed.
Authors were such powerful magicians that even upon their death, their protective wards didn't immediately fade.
It would take 70 years for their magic to finally wear off their towers crumble and their creations to enter the world.
However, authors have kept working on ways to extend their protections and keep their creations for themselves forever.
Okay, so that's the myth of the author.
And this is my myth of the comments.
In the beginning, culture was free.
The lands brimmed with possibilities and there existed a utopian ideal called the commons.
The commons was no ordinary place.
Found this field were all knowledge, all resources, all innovation flowed freely, unencumbered by walls or gates or protections of any kind.
It was said that within the commons anyone could take anything they needed, build upon what they found, and then they would give back their creations for others to do the same with.
Harmony and abundance reigned for there was no mine, no yours, only ours.
That sounds like a beautiful place.
Okay, so those are stories in that they capture a binary, this binary idea that things are either protected or things are either usable by everyone.
But that is sort of like a fake binary, like actually making stuff on the world, like it happens a gray area that is kind of in between those.
So to understand both the binaries and then the gray area, I'm going to start by trying to explain what copyright is and how it is useful to you as a maker of cultural things, but also how it hinders you in various ways.
And then we'll get some other side of things and then we'll get to the gray area in between.
Okay, so copyright is an international set of laws.
They started in England in 1710 and the first copyright laws basically gave authors more power over their work than their publishers.
And then the thing to think about with copyright and all the ways, all the language that I'll use to talk about copyright is that it started with writers like authors meaning people that write stuff.
But authors now refers to anyone who creates anything.
So when I say author, I don't mean that you're writing text. It might mean that you're making a photograph or making a music video or writing songs or making graphic design.
An author is just anyone who makes anything.
The US has had copyright laws ever since it was founded. That was an important part of the Constitution that Americans in this new country were able to own the rights to anything that they offered.
That wasn't a protection that was granted to them by England before.
So it's part of why we wanted to be free from England in the first place.
The United States of America. Just to be clear.
1886 is the most important date and copyright though. 1886 is the burn convention.
And it was where the United States and a handful of European countries got together in burn sweats were then to ski.
And then we're like, oh, we should probably decide if we should all protect each other's authors work together too while we're on the ski trip.
It's actually there to solve this problem. But so the burn convention is the foundation for all contemporary copyright law.
And it's now, it's still called the burn convention, even though it's now been ratified in Paris and New York and a handful of other cities.
But the UN manages this now. And so pretty much every country that's part of the United Nations has agreed to the burn convention.
And what the burn convention says is that any author, when they create a work, automatically has the rights to the reproduction of that work, grants it to them.
So anything you make in any country that agrees to the burn convention, you automatically are the copyright holder of that thing without having to register anything, without having to file any paperwork.
It's just the owner of that intellectual property. And you're the one who can decide whether or not anyone else can make copies of it. That's basically what the burn convention says.
A copy means literally a copy like you just take the exact text in the exact same way and print it out again.
And also mean that you take a script and take a book and turn it into a film that's considered a copy.
If you take the characters and do something else with those same characters, even if the story is different, that's considered a copy.
So copy means a lot more things than it also used to when it literally referred to making more versions of a book.
This has continued to sort of like update copyright, although the last main time we had changed copyright law in the United States was 1998.
That's like a considerably long time ago.
This is part of the reason that like the modern internet is such a weird place for copyright because the last time the US made copyright decisions based on how things move around the internet was 1998 when almost nobody really used the internet to send stuff to people.
What copyright in presumes happens when you make something is that you as the author have some sort of idea.
In this example, Mickey is thinking that he needs to sit and so like chairness is like up in the ether.
It's an idea, he pulls chairness down and then Mickey uses his creativity and makes a gesture that turns into an original unique creation.
That's what copyright presumes is the process to make a work.
So in this example, this chair is the copyrightable work that Mickey's creativity through a gesture birthed into the world from this idea of I need to sit.
And what copyright also presumes is that there's this real separation between like the ideas that you have that inspire a thing and the actual expression or execution of that thing.
So if you just have the idea, I need to sit, you can't copyright chairness.
So the only thing you can copyright is the actual form you give to your idea of chairness. Does that make sense?
So here's four different examples of chairness put into unique forms and I'm just going to point out that I'm committing a copyright violation.
Do you know what that copyright violation is in my showing you these images?
Can you tell me your name too?
You don't have the credits for the chair's own rate?
It's even more than. I don't have the right to use any of these images at all.
Then I credited these as just a gesture so that you could find them if you wanted to put them up later and I didn't get to these yet.
But yeah, these are all for our copyright infringed image uses because even if I had credited them, I didn't ever ask permission from the people who owned the rights to these photos to use them.
Travis, I thought if you were using images in educational format or video or stuff that it was free to use.
That's great. We'll get to fair use in a second, but it's still a copyright violation even if you're using it in that context.
But we'll get to that in a second.
Okay, so here's four examples of chairness in unique gestures.
This is the Ames's multi-plastic side chair.
This is Philippe Stark's Louis Ghost Chair, which is based on a style of chair called the Louis XVI chair, which is a public domain chair because it's from the 17th century.
And so that particular execution of chairness is usable by anyone in any way you want.
Philippe Stark then referenced that to make this chair, which this is now a copyrighted chair, even though it's based on a not copyrighted chair.
It's like the weird part about copyright.
This is called the Oak Tear Chair by some designers in Baltimore.
It's a copyrighted example of chair.
This is the Garrett Revelled Chair, which you might have seen in some of your art history or design history classes.
This chair in this particular colorway is from 1923, which means it's actually in the public domain, but the photo of it isn't in the public domain.
The photo of it is by some photographer and I didn't ask them.
So you said, okay, that's how I'm just illustrating how complicated copyright is also in this example.
Okay, so chairness turns into different kinds of chairs.
Each of these at least at one time was copyrighted, but we can all still make more chairs.
So like they're being copyrighted versions of something doesn't mean that you can't keep making other versions of that thing.
Okay, and then so you have your copyrighted chair and our Mickey here made it and then dies.
This is Mickey's death, sorry Mickey.
This particular design that this Mickey made is protected for 70 more years after that Mickey's death.
And then it magically enters this space called the public domain and we'll get to that in a second.
So copyright says the thing that you've authored, this unique executed idea is protected and you get to decide every way that it's reused until you die.
And then 70 more years after that.
And so usually that means that you're like kids get to decide or you're like a state gets to decide or in more complicated ways the person you sold the copyright to gets to keep deciding.
Okay, so here's an example of death of the author plus 70 years.
Henry Matisse died in 1954, which means that as of January 1st of this year any drawing or painting or etching or anything that like Henry Matisse made is in the public domain.
So you can make all the dancing paper silhouettes replicas you want.
You don't even have to like homage Matisse's work, you can just directly replicate Matisse's work.
That means that you can like draw them yourself or it means that you can like literally take the original and just replicate it and do whatever you want to it.
So this picture, this is another copyright quiz.
The portrait of Matisse also known as the green stripe because of the way he sort of like did the green shadow down his wife's face is in the public domain.
But is this that I'm literally showing you in the public domain?
No, you need some notes. Why is the answer no?
It's a photo of the thing. Yeah, exactly.
So while the piece, the original piece is in the public domain, that means you can go take your own photo of it and use that whoever you want or you can make your own drawing of it and use that whoever you want because even making a sketch of something and using it counts as the kind of copyright infringement that counts as a reproduction.
The cool thing is that the museum that owns this piece is the National Museum of Art of Denmark and they've decided that when pieces in their collection enter the public domain, the photos of those pieces that they put on their website also enter the public domain.
So you can see right here it says free for use and they've done that with like anything in their collection that is that was a copyrighted work of art that's hit the public domain death of the author plus 70 years threshold.
They then choose not to enforce their copyright of of the images that they've had made of the reproductions they've had made of those things.
So what constitutes a copyright violation?
Anything that anything you've replicated that you didn't ask for permission or pay for permission to replicate is a copyright violation.
Like reposted a meme without finding out where the like image and the meme came from? No one's done that. Copyright violation.
Did you ever grab an image off of Google search and use it in something? Copyright violation. Did you ever...
That's the only tool that I can't do with you.
Even technically even using a quote in an essay is a kind of copyright violation.
That just happens to be a thing that we've needed to do for so long that we've decided there are like safe rules that if you follow you won't be penalized for that infringement.
Well copyright law just says that like any time you take anything that is in copyright and don't find out if it's okay for you to make a reproduction of it even like a tiny piece of it, you've committed a copyright infringement.
So why should we care? As designers we use other people's stuff all the time. The weird part about being a graphic designer is that you make...
You might make newly authored things like a new layout for a magazine and you would technically be the copyright holder of that layout or of like individual page designs.
But you're often using like text that's copyrighted by somebody else and images that are copyrighted by somebody else.
So you can't actually own the copyright of the entire...
You can't just reproduce freely the images and text in the magazine even though you might be able to reproduce freely the layout of the magazine because you like own the copyright of it.
The other thing that the other reasons to care about this are just that each time you make an infringement you can be guilty of up to a $150,000 fine.
So that's $150,000 fine for each infringement you are found guilty of.
That means that like potentially in a magazine or like a website that you just like grab random images to put into places, you could potentially have...
You might have copied like 10 or 20 or 100 things to make that.
And if you didn't have permission for any of those that means you could be guilty of up to like millions of dollars of fines for just like one thing that you made that happened to include like multiple other people's copyrighted things.
The other reason you should care is that your things that you make you own the copyright too and you might not want other people making replicas of.
So it's useful to know like what constitutes an infringement and then how you might go about doing something about it.
In some countries all you have to do is just file a complaint with the government when you find these things.
The hard part about the United States is that even though in the United States you're automatically granted the copyright of your work to actually like file a legal proceeding to enforce your copyright, you have to have registered your copyrighted work with the US Copyright Office.
And it has to be registered before you sue, before the infringement that you're suing about happened.
Often how like photographers do this is that whenever they take a batch of photos they register the entire batch of photos that they think they'll be showing or be sending to somebody with the office like every time they take a new batch of photos.
As a designer you kind of like I don't actually know too many designers that like register their magazine designs or like poster designs with the copyright office.
Often because those are things that like ostensibly like aren't that important to like protect.
For things like brands and like style guides and stuff some of those things might be worth copyrighting.
Some like completely unique things where like everything inside of it is like your artistic invention.
I don't know like a really cool poster or something might be worth like one by one deciding if you're going to register.
Sorry I'm just sort of rambling now let me catch my brain catch up.
Is that any of my questions? Yeah.
Mark, I think.
What's the process like for registering maybe that's not a relative question.
Yeah. It's pretty it's like it's easy.
I mean there's just a form like on copyright.gov there's like a link that says register your copyright and there's just a form.
And if it's like individual thing you just fill out the form and there's like a modest fee.
It's a paid for the paperwork basically.
If you have a bunch of things to register there's like a different way to register an entire group of things all at once.
And that's like a little bit more complex process but the copyright.gov just like walks you through long.
Thanks. Yeah.
Are you saying that if somebody were to like violate copyright if let's say those hours we wouldn't be able to extrude them if we didn't get ahead of it.
There's five.
Not not exactly but sort of.
I'm not I'm the fly I'm not going to find it.
I had there's a bunch of posters that I made that like some random person decided to like sell on things on Amazon.
And you know I could have I could have first sent a season to sister figure out who the person was and sent them a season to sister.
It just says if you don't take these down I will enforce my copyright and like sue you for damages.
And I could do that even without having registered them.
I could copyright is a federal thing so it is something that happens through federal courts.
And there are still like local state city or state court ways that you can sue people that aren't an official federal copyright case but are still ways to like make them take something down or that kind of thing.
The other way that like the digital the 1998 digital DMCA digital millennia copyright act does is that when something is on a service like on Facebook or on Amazon or on YouTube you tell the service that somebody is making a copyright infringement and the service then can take down the thing for you.
And that doesn't require you having to like sue them that just like gives you a way to say like hey service please take this thing down.
This is useful to think about I don't know if this has happened to any of your words individually but this has happened to like graphic design student works in the past.
Often times like saying graphic design 3 you might make a music video and you pick like who has like a non esoteric band that everyone would recognize.
You pick a green day song.
And then you post it on Vimeo or YouTube and it immediately is rejected like it made me like doesn't even let you upload it or you upload it and then like a day later it's like automatically taken down.
And that is technically a fair use of that song like it's for an educational purpose you're not trying to sort of like copy it for any malicious or personal and you're just like trying to you know like use it like culture gets used and like make something else with it to learn.
The DMCA is what allows those like automatic takedowns to happen so basically all these services so that they don't constantly get berated by like Sony BMG music.
Basically just like are constantly monitoring new uploads and like testing their sound testing their like sonic signatures against like known sonic signatures of real copyrighted music and just like automatically take them down if those signatures line match up with something.
Twitch does this too where they will like automatically replace music in the background with like a bit free use music if it recognizes that you're like using copyrighted music.
And so that's all part of the DMCA like the language in there that basically says that these big service providers are the really the ones doing the copying and so in this digital space that we're in.
So they need ways that don't require legal intervention to like remove offending things so that they're not held responsible for those offending things.
Yeah. For like let's say it's our dishonest or like in their case you sign those posters on Amazon you have to prove that they're your original work.
Well it depends most of the big service providers basically any time they get any takedown notice they just take the thing down because it's easier to just like presume that it's true.
And take the thing down rather than like have to do anything in a court later.
This is good sometimes for like individuals like us but it can be really bad if somebody says your thing needs to be taken down because then you have to prove how it's not an infringement or like you have to prove that it's like that it is your own unique individual thing to Amazon or Facebook and they don't make that process simple at all.
But yeah so like if you do notice something and it's on a service that's the easiest way is to like figure out what they're like DMCA complaint takedown farm is and like make make those directly to the service.
But yeah so you know a company that's commonly known for doing this is Urban Outfitters they frequently just like send interns to look through illustrators websites for cool stuff to put on shirts to sell it Urban Outfitters without ever asking anyone for permission because they know that for the most part that person probably hasn't registered that thing already.
And so they won't be able to easily make a federal case against them.
There'll be some simple like cease and desist or some simple like simple case that just has like a tiny tiny payout or perhaps no penalty associated with it at all other than just like some bad press.
Is that kind of answer your questions.
I think as graphic designers it's the most common that you're being burnt off and it's more common that we're the first offers actually.
But yeah like if you have friends who are illustrators or photographers or if you also do like illustration or photography or something and you're posting your things widely it is good to register those things as much as possible.
Okay fair use one other thing about fair use is that it's like only a defense fair use is only proven in a court once you're already being sued for copyright and a judge the judge who's overseeing your cases who decides if your thing is being used in a fair use way.
There's a handful of things that we've like as a culture have decided because they've been argued about so many times that count is fair use.
Every way you've been told to like site quotes in an essay where you like put it in quotes you type said it slightly differently you make sure to like either in the quote or as a footnote say like this is the actual author this is the text that it came from etc.
You're like considered now like fair use ways of citing information of quoting information and like read like you're infringing the copyright by reproducing it but it's like a fair way to reproduce it.
Often times like in news or like documentary filmmaking you might reuse clips of something and you don't have to ask for permission every single time you do that.
Often there's like sort of like you're using a tiny amount of something usually there's not like a set amount unfortunately but it's like a tiny amount and that like it's in the service of the story you're trying to tell.
And you're building on top of that story by showing that thing you're not letting that thing do the entire story telling for you those are kind of the rules in news and documentary filmmaking of like reusing somebody's audio or video clips or photography.
The other thing is that there's things that aren't copyrightable so like facts aren't copyrightable.
If I tell you that I weigh 167 pounds which is that's not a fact that's made up so if I tell you I weigh 187 pounds that's a fact.
I don't know where it's 67 different.
And then you like write that Christian ways 100 ease of pounds I can't be like oh you infringed my copyright of my lecture where I told you I weigh
187 pounds because it's a fact.
Other things that can't be copyrighted are I mean like math equations and like basic scientific data again these are things that are kind of facts.
But also things like recipes like the actual ingredient list of a recipe isn't copyrightable.
But the pros that you use to explain how you make that recipe is copyrightable or the images you take of how to make that recipe are copyrightable.
And that's how like the same recipe ends up in like a bunch of different cookbooks and it just gets written about differently.
But it's like names are escaping me.
But when you read and somebody else's cookbook like so and so's roast chicken and it's like oh I got this from Julia Child's roast chicken.
I got this from Julia Child's like art of French cooking and this is how I make it like you can just list exactly her ingredients and like her basic sort of like here's the order that you do these things as long as you're not just like replicating the test that explains how to do those things.
Other kinds of fair use you know like in general the idea is that you're using something for research or you're using something for educational purposes that that's meant to be a fair use scenario where like copies are okay.
But in our like modern society where like you replicating something in a class project used to just like only live in the classroom but now it might like accidentally or purposely live like out on the internet where a bunch of people can see it.
It doesn't really matter that it's fair use because like I said fair use has to be proved like afterwards.
It's not a it's not a preemptive and it's like a defensive effect.
Yeah so what I asked is it must be really subjective because like they still I don't know if they still like settle the lawsuit.
A lot of the Obama forum.
Yeah.
But they use the fair use.
So Lulu's referencing the Shepard fairy aka obeyed giants made a hope poster with a like a screamer did poster and had a portrait of Obama that Shepard fairy drew.
But he drew the photo the portrait based directly on a photo that came out of some like some campaign photos.
A photographer who took the photo claimed that Shepard fairy had violated his copyright and the court found that yes like Shepard fairy had violated the copyright because he made an exact drawing of the photographs.
So even though he like transformed it into a drawing it wasn't transformed enough to count as like a fair use.
That's a great example.
Another contemporary example.
The Andy Warhol Foundation just got sued by a photographer who in the eighties had had taken some photos of Prince the musician.
And Andy Warhol the actual Andy Warhol had licensed the right to use the portrait Prince in four color ways of a set of screen prints that he made it.
That are like a pretty famous set of Andy Warhol and screen prints.
The Andy Warhol Foundation last year used a new color way variant of that Andy Warhol piece as the cover to one of their catalogs.
And the photographers sued them saying like you didn't license this photo for this color way.
This photo was only licensed for these four color ways and you need to either pay me more or stop sending this to people.
And Andy Warhol Foundation claimed fair use and we just changed the colors of one of the pictures that we have of an Andy Warhol thing.
That was this copy and the judge in the case rule that it did count as a copy that they like they haven't.
The photo had been licensed specifically for that use and just changing the colors of an existing photo that they took of one of the uses just was a way to make another kind of copy.
Not just a way to change the use that they had anywhere.
So these things do get like nuanced and complicated when they are actually legal, legally brought somewhere.
And these things can also like really ruin your life as an individual if like you're the one in trouble for them.
Or really ruin your life as like a person able to keep doing sign jobs if your clients are getting in trouble for things like this.
I didn't find out if the Andy Warhol Foundation like claimed their designer or not.
Not for doing I think they took the heat as like their idea.
But like the designer who changed the colors ultimately could be the person who's like responsible for the like illegal copy.
Okay. Any other questions about that?
This is a lot.
Okay. So if the copyright is where the protection of stuff lies and it's just like complex web of protections and interprotections.
Then the opposite like I said is the public domain or this is also called the commons.
And the commons is like the stuff that we all collectively share access to in the you know like as cultural producers that means like images and texts and sounds and things that like our old enough or some other ways that like we can all just use them.
But like historically this is meant like the forests and the air and the water and the mountains and like the physical commons that we can all access around this.
And so when we talk about cultural production stuff though it has a special name it's called the public domain.
And so when things do enter the public domain when they have crossed that like barrier of death of the author plus 70 years.
Then suddenly you don't have to ask anybody to redistribute or copy the things anymore.
You can make any kind of derivative story or work from that that you want.
And you can like adapt it or like interpret it in whatever new ways you want with again about having to ask anybody for permission.
So this is where things like pride and prejudice and zombies comes from right or like that there is always some new Sherlock Holmes show being made.
I just saw that like CBS who first made the elementary show that have like Lucy Wu as Dr. Watson.
They now have like a new show called Watson that has Morris Cherry as Dr. Watson and it's said in like the present but Sherlock Holmes is dead and now Watson is fighting Mori Arnie.
But he's a doctor in emergency room but they're like detectives it's like house house house the doctor show that was also like a version of the Sherlock Holmes story.
So like these characters because they're in the public domain can sort of live over and over again in all these different ways.
And the public domain is cool because it provides these sort of like shared reference points that we sort of like even if you don't know the origin of necessarily it's still like in the sort of zeitgeist of culture.
And like referencing it or building upon it sort of like means that people get it in ways that maybe like a completely new thing isn't getable.
Okay anyway so that's derivatives and adaptations interpretations and just like using such so that's also like you know using Mickey in my talk that I can just use even if I don't want to do anything else with it.
Okay other ways that things enter the public domain besides just like that that death of the author barrier is that some countries decide that like the things that they pay for as a country are just public domain.
So the US government anything the US government makes that isn't that doesn't need to be classified or protected for some other like important reason is immediately just in the public domain.
Sometimes that means like that doesn't really matter because like who's using some of these text documents I don't know but sometimes it like is really interesting.
So like there's all these famous photographers that during the depression worked for the works progress administration and took photos of like the okis in the dust bowl.
Every single one of those photos was immediately in 1976 became the public domain and so that's why you often see some of those photos used so much is that like you don't have to ask the US government for permission to use any of them.
This photo here is the first photo taken the first fully round photo of Earth taken from space.
This is by the Apollo 17 astronaut crew because it's a NASA photo it is in the public domain and the other interesting part about this is do you know what the most used image on Earth is.
It's this image this is the most used image on Earth and it's over if isn't that cool.
Part of the reason is that it's in the public domain so like this it was taken in the Apollo 17 missions this is in 1968 that this was taken so it still took a few so it took until 1976 when it became in the public domain but since 1976 anyone can use this image for anything that they want.
And so it's like shown up on book covers it's shown up on album covers it's shown up on posters it's shown up in professors presentations and that's I don't know that's exciting and cool.
The only thing I really like about this is like the center of the photo is like the ocean in between Antarctica and Africa so it also doesn't feel like it's like bias to like western interest which I think is like a nice a nice view of the earth.
Okay so US government version public domain just like the weird part about the public domain is though that when you take something from the public domain and you do something with it you create a new copyrighted work.
This is like where the public domain is weird so to use Disney snow white was the first full length feature film that Disney made came up in 1937 which means it's still in the public.
In the public in under copyright. Oh I didn't mention this for works by an off like individual human author the copyright is life of the author or sorry death of the author plus 70 years non humans don't get authorship except if they're corporations corporations since there isn't a death.
Corporations die sometimes but not exactly the same way corporations copyrights that they hold go from their publication for 95 years in the United States so things like Disney movies the date that they released so like the year 1937 snow white is protected for 95 years after 1937 so what's what's that math 20.
2032 snow white will enter the public domain if Disney doesn't manipulate copyright law and make it even longer.
That's that also happened in 1998 that should have like 1999 should have actually been the year that see boboly went into the public domain under the old copyright laws and Disney this sounds like a hate Disney I do kind of.
But they're like a good bad guy in the story of copyright Disney with the help of Sonny Bono I don't know if you know who Sonny Bono is he was famous like LA music producer and musician of pop star with his wife share at the time.
He became a senator in California one of this Senate US senators from California in his later life and he was lobbied by Disney to propose the Sonny Bono copyright extension law which was closely known as the Mickey Mouse copyright act because it extended copyright protection to 95 years from 50 years.
Some of that Steve O'Billy would say like Mickey Mouse would say protected for the laundry. Disney is very litigious about protecting its copyright.
Anyway okay so snow white came on 1937 these are all copyright infringes by the way it's not as Disney to use these stills.
It's based on a Brothers Grimm tale that was first published in 1812 so by the time Disney got to it it was in the public domain but the Disney version of Snow White is not in public domain.
So while you can tell the story of Snow White as many ways as you want you can't connect it to any of the things that are special about the Disney version.
So like the names of the dwarves in the Disney version are unique to the Disney version so you can't name one of your dwarves Bill B.
Bill Sue.
Bill Sue. There's this definitely registered and they can definitely file federal copyright lawsuits against you.
You can't dress your Snow White like this.
Sorry, yeah jump in.
What if you add like different types like parodies but more?
Yeah, parody is another place that like is considered a fair use. So if you're kind of like making fun of it or like referencing it for some like critical or humorous reason is likely that you get away with that.
But where's the line?
There isn't one. That's the promise.
There isn't an easy way to like start a night live.
Can does this all the time really like directly reference things and specifically build a sketch around them?
They're like fairly obviously known as like obviously do as for sure doing parody of things since they have like a history of doing parody of things.
Individual authors who do you know like reference things for parody or critical analysis.
It's definitely a copyright infringement. It's just like is it worth the person to try to do something about it?
And then your fair use argument in court would be that it's parody.
And that like would be what you'd have to argue and get the judge to agree with you on.
To actually be protected.
So yeah like the the cool part of copyright is like everything's protected and so everything you make technically is also protected.
The hard part is that when you want to reference something or change something or something there isn't like a clear answer if what you've done is safe to have done or not.
So what I don't like about the public domain is that if you do use it and then make new things you sort of like in re-enclosed part of the public domain that you've made it protected again.
And so while other people can still do like snow whitey things they can't immediately safely reference the Disney snow white thing which arguably in modern life is like the most known version of snow white not the brother's green version of snow white.
And so like it's more likely that you want to reference the Disney version since more people know that the original version.
And so anyway I find that like intellectually unfair and like cultural production wise unfair.
Because what I like about making stuff is that for the most part the history of humans making stuff is methods that embrace copying and embrace changing things and embrace like remixing things.
And the way that like copyright law works is a kind of like prohibits this kind of cultural production because as soon as you if the thing is remixable as soon as you've remixed it you now have a new copyright protected thing.
And then if the thing is already protected you're like you can't really safely do these things with it.
A place where this is like obvious is in like music production like it used to be that sampling was a copyright infringement even before 1976 remixing wasn't a copyright infringement actually because you couldn't own copyright protection of a point musical recordings.
And that was like something that the music industry lobby for the 70s all these big records labels.
Partially because they are the ones that own the masters of the recordings they are the ones who own the right to the recording of the thing not the like song itself necessarily but the recording of the song was a copyrighted work that they gained the protection of in the 70s.
Sorry it's too much information.
And so you know like all through the late 70s and the days when the sort of like rise of hip hop a lot of the reason that like the way that worked right is like taking beats and things that were like already interesting and sometimes purposefully known and doing something new on top of that is like all copyright infringement now.
And if you want to get into music and you want to know more about that there's a really cool documentary called Rip or Remix Manifesto that like focuses on girl talk who like purposefully uses known recorded samples illegally.
And things like the BC boys pulse boutique were like no sample on that album was clear today would cost like you know hundreds of thousands of dollars per sample sometimes like per clearing each sample.
And so like if you wanted to make that album legally it would be like 78 million dollars or something of like cost just to clear all the samples that happen to make that record.
And so like no record label wants to pay that much to make something and so they're just like well let's just not do that stuff.
And so anyone who's sampling anything is like always taking a bet that they're not going to get sued for copyright infringement.
And then you see these like the other thing that fits into this sort of like cultural enclosure thing wrong direction is you got bands like the Rolling Stones who like sue new bands for sampling Rolling Stones songs.
Even though the entirety of their over of music is just like stolen from black blues musicians but they didn't pay anything for it.
We can get into that if you want to talk more about that.
Okay let me get on to the actual things I wanted to talk about that.
Okay so if you want to live in a more of a great area where you can like maintain ownership over things but you can let people use it without just everyone being afraid of being sued all the time.
We've got some places we can look in culture that like have figured this out already.
So the way that I really got into this was actually through using open source software and a lot of open source software basically has licenses that say the people who wrote this code own the own this code own the copyright of this code.
But if you do X Y and Z you can use this code for whatever you want.
And then there's just like flavors of like what that X Y and Z are.
So one flavor is from this guy or Richard Stollman who created this software called GNU. GNU stands for GNU is not UNIX.
And he was getting he was working at MIT in the 80s in the artificial intelligence lab.
And started getting really frustrated that while he and his buddies all just used to send software to each other and like anything you were doing you would just sort of like oh I figured this out like here.
This will help you figure out the thing you you're working on.
And it wasn't just the researchers at MIT was also the researchers at AT&T and Xerox and these big tech companies that at the time obviously weren't big tech companies.
But the early 80s is when these companies really started to like sell software and equipment to people right like computers were infiltrating life enough that like AT&T could actually like make money selling computer software to people using AT&T devices or like Xerox.
Xerox started selling a laser printer and so the apocryphal story is that Richard Stollman their lab got Xerox laser printer.
And it had a bug where like when a printer ever happened it would just like stop and not you wouldn't know if your print is going to come out.
It would just stop and the queue would just be there and like no one would know what why it stopped or whose print was supposed to be next.
And so he wrote his own little program that he was able to like load onto the computer because you could get the software from Xerox and change it.
That it would then like ping your terminal and tell you that the printer had stopped and like these were the jobs that were budgeted.
And then anyway they got the next version of the printer and it still had the problem where it just would stop and like now I tell you anything.
And so he asked Xerox for the code again so he could fix it and they said oh we sell this printer now so like you can't have this code anymore.
And this like bothered him so much. He saw the writing was on the wall that all of these other companies Unix by the way it was owned by AT&T.
They're like who developed Unix operating system.
These companies are going to like start charging us for everything and they're not going to share anything.
And so I refuse to use any proprietary software ever again and will make our own Unix that we can run our stuff on.
So that's why Gnu is called Gnu Not Unix because he's purposely going to make something that was like Unix but that like wouldn't be protected the way AT&T was going to protect Unix.
Anyway so he has a license called the Gnu Public License and it's what's known as a viral license which says Gnu owns the copyright to the Gnu software.
But as long as you share your software you can use anything that is Gnu licensed in your software.
And this is called the viral license because it basically like enforces sharing on the next person.
If you're going to include this Gnu licensed thing you also have to share your thing that uses it.
This is in contrast with like the most commonly used open source software license is the MIT license which ironically you know like it's called the MIT license.
We just saw him and words at MIT but he quit before the MIT license became a thing.
And that came out of this work by this guy Eric Raymond who learned about in the early 90s was like really impressed by how the Linux operating system got better way faster than like the Windows operating system was getting.
And so he like talked to Linus Torval who started it and like interviewed and participated with some of the other hackers that were like sharing their code to more rapidly invent Linux.
And he pitched Silicon Valley on like embracing this idea that he would like share your code with people because they could like help you fix it and make it better faster.
But Eric Raymond was like really worried that the Gnu public license would like turn off business like companies because like they wouldn't want to have to share what they made.
They probably wanted to like take advantage of free labor from like smart people distributed around the world but they weren't going to want to like share the things that those people made afterwards with just anyone.
So he helped invent the MIT license which is kind of like one step removed from the public domain which just says as long as you reference somewhere in your code that this chunk of code that you're reusing came from like this place you can do anything you want with this code.
And so that's how like Silicon Valley works today. Silicon Valley is the new villain in my story.
Like Adobe takes advantage of tons of open source software that helps power creative cloud helps power like the Adobe Firefly service it even builds parts of like Adobe Illustrator and InDesign and things.
Like nothing they build is shared right like you can't get the code for Illustrator even though the illustrator has some open source code in it.
And that's because they're using code that's like exclusively MIT licensed or some other these like liberal licenses not the like viral share and share like licenses.
Okay, sorry. Okay, so what's useful to like try to bring back to like making stuff culture are these like ideas that the actual makers developers users of things should also be sharing those things with each other.
And that's like the cool part about open source software is that there's this like maintaining and sharing the stuff is like built into the community of people that are often using the thing.
And so if we want to copy wrong, I don't know what's a copy left. This is sometimes called.
You can there are ways to do this with other kinds of things other than software like software is easy because like a license has been part of software often from the beginning.
We often don't know how to like copyright or works differently if you're making text or images or designs.
So the way that we can do that is to turn to things like creative comments.
And creative comments is basically a set of things built on top of copyright law where it acknowledges that like copyright exists and that when we make stuff we get to decide who does what with it.
But it shortcuts how you get the permission to meet copies or reuse something.
And so it basically has like a variety of kinds of licenses where you can decide on like stricter or more open permissions for your things.
My personal favorite license if you're using creative comments is this one called the CC by SA.
Which basically says if I like take a photo and I post it on flicker I can assign the creative comments by CC by SA license to that photo that I put on flicker.
And anyone who finds it can use it for whatever they want as long as they attribute it back to me and share the thing that they made with it the same way it's also shared.
So that's like the most like free culture license.
I like that because it's sort of like forces this sort of like bibliography of where things came from.
So you can also like look for those things yourself if you find things that get made by other people.
But it sort of tries to enforce that that person also has to share their cultural production.
Excuse me, keep opening up culture.
They have other ones that are like you can use this for to open after commercial purposes or you can use this but you can't make derivations.
You can only like use this as it as it is.
So like a good example of that might be like a photographer who's taking like event shots or something where like you might not care if people reuse your photos of that event.
But you don't want them like cutting people out to use in like a different way they can only use the photo like as it exists.
Some authors will publish their works this way that like there's a great book on copyright copy this book and the entire text of the book is licensed as creative comments by attribution no derivatives.
So you can like reproduce the book in full and do whatever you want with it.
But you can't like re edit the book or you can't like cut the book up into little pieces and like reassemble it in a new order so that it tells a kind of like different copyright story.
That's like not allowed in the creative comments license.
That might be allowed if you like call or email Eric Shriver wrote the book and like ask him for permission to do it.
But it's not allowed by the like license the creative comments license.
And so the point of the creative comments license like I said is to just make a shortcut for like how you get permission to do something with some other work.
Okay, if this if this interests you.
They make it really easy by having this license chooser where it like it asks you some questions and based on how you answer the questions it just gives you the creative comments license that you should put on your things.
The cool part about this is that you could license every single thing with a different for different creative comments license like some things you might not care if like they're out in the world.
They were doing whatever they want with them as long as they link them back to you and other things you might want only to be used in a certain way or like without being edited or something.
You can like individually assign a different creative comments level to each each work individually if you want.
If you want to find things though that are from this world so that it's like easier for you to make stuff without worrying about infringing somebody's copyright.
There's a website called Openverse that this used to be run by creative comments but now it's run by automatic the company that makes WordPress which is like one of the more more used open source web content management systems.
Let's search for images or video or audio files. Flickr runs a section called Flickr Commons that's just like just stuff that's been creative comments license or is in the public domain or at least has no copyright holder which is sort of like a great area.
This is a new one that I found this is called OpenArt Images. This searches a lot of those same places but like has a kind of nicer looking interface with more information immediately surfaced.
This one's called public.work. This by far has the coolest interface. It's just like giant field of images but it has like a pretty small range of things that it searches.
And then there's a stock photo site called Rob Hicksle and they have a whole public domain section so if you go to RobHicksle.com they just like in the upper menu have this public domain section and they have then like a whole ton of things that they've actually very nicely often re scanned themselves and like retouched up so they're like really high res and really nice
like color balancing and stuff. They also sell like I said sell stock photos so they have free things and they have public domain things and the free things still have are free to download but they still have a license that like says you can only use them in certain ways.
And then the public domain things are free and they're also then like free is then like you have the freedom to do whatever you want with them.
So there's like a difference between free things and free things. In English there's not a difference. It's the same word annoying me but in Europe they say there's like grotesque meaning free is in cost and Libre meaning free is in freedom.
And so if that is helpful sometimes you can think what it's free not free is in free beer but free is in freedom.
Yeah and then grotesque is not the Libre not grotesque so public domain stuff is always Libre you can do whatever you want with this freedom, freeness.
Okay sorry so raw pixel has this whole section they also sell stuff and then they also have like now like a interface for making posters and flyers using AI help and stuff like everyone else.
But like that they have this giant public domain section basically is like the raw materials that power that like poster build their session that they have.
And then there's also other places you can find these things that aren't public domain this is probably founded in your life so far this is unsplash.
Unsplash uses the unsplash license which is sort of like the MIT license of photos it says these are like the only things that the license says that you can download them and use them for free.
You can use them for commercial or non commercial things you don't have to ask any permission though they prefer that you attribute them but you don't even have to do that.
And then you just can't sell them and you can't make your own image service that's what you're agreeing to when you download the unsplash things.
But it doesn't say you can't like make a folder of images and give them to your client right like it says you can't make also an image service.
And then there's a bunch of places to find type that is free this way to like Google fonts used to be just like a collection of actually like crappy free isn't price fonts that you could get off the internet.
And they just sort of like compiled them from else from the internet but now Google fonts is free fonts and it's almost exclusively fonts that have been licensed as open source fonts so like it's not just that you can get the font but that you can like get the font files.
Usually off of GitHub and you can like edit the fonts or like add characters to the font if you want.
So that's like a real public domain font now.
My favorite open source fonts or like free comments fonts are at the Velveteen fonts and they've sort of like specifically decided that they will only make weird fonts moving forward that like there's enough regular fonts they are only going to make fonts that like have an aesthetic or social message that go along with them.
I think that's interesting.
And then the cool part about like images and type and stuff that comes from the free culture world is that then like other people can also like make their own interesting lists or collections of things about violating any kind of copyright.
So this is a Belgian woman named Lorraine Fritter who made this collection called badass fonts by women badass labor fonts by women.
So it's like just female design fonts to give you like a different lens through which to pick fonts from but she's able to do that because they're like all in the comments cultural comments fonts.
So it doesn't make an infringement to like replicate them or even like link to them from somewhere else.
If you're into the idea of like like liberated fonts, I have a whole arena channel of all kinds of things if you want to find that.
GitHub is like a code repository but sometimes it gets used for fonts since fonts are technically software now.
But sometimes you will put other kinds of things on GitHub or GitHub also that you can use like this is a magazine called Libre graphics magazine that has every issue of their magazine on GitLab but it's not just the like PDF of the finished magazine.
It's the like actual design files of the magazine are on GitLab.
They use a program called service which is like an open source page editor but because the authors of all the works where people who cared about like liberated free culture ideas, the like to include something in the magazine, all of the images and texts at least had to be like creative comments by attribution share like license so that people could like keep doing liberated stuff with them.
Okay this is more places to look for things. That's the thing I made with open source symmetry for a client project. Okay we're at that.
So I'm into this partially because I just like it mean to not doing things the status quo way.
I personally like looking for these like open liberated copyright free things to sort of like fight the tyranny of the status quo and I see it as the kind of like speculative or critical design gesture.
I also admit to it though because like sometimes the stuff that we use kind of like has a bunch of connotations that come along with it if it's like contemporary or correct stuff and like sometimes using things that are from the public domain like things that are old.
The like visual vernacular of it like doesn't have necessarily like any contemporary meaning and so it's like becomes easier to make new meanings with it or like use it in ways that are not conventional or surprising.
It also if you're like looking for images on flicker comments you can't like look up diverse office staff high-fiving as like an image for your magazine or for your website header.
You have to find like some other way to like say that this is an office place where all people belong and you have to use your sort of like graphic design semiotic muscles a little bit more but then it also means that you like make something that's kind of more meaningful to you into like the project and like to the time and space that you're working rather than something that just looks like a thing anyone else could also be making at the time.
That's like the downside using unsplash right now every single web service just has like an ad shit from unsplash button on it where you can just like fill any area that has that needs an image with like an image from unsplash and that means that you see like the same images like on you know one half of the square space websites for that reason.
The other thing to like think about in terms of our role like why do we care about this as designers is that this is to me like problematic as an academic where like we want you to be successful in your careers as graphic designers which means we kind of need you to know the tools that industry uses and right now that's like the Adobe Creative Cloud.
The weird part about how these tools are evolving though is like every tool is becoming a cloud tool right like it lives in the internet or requires an internet connection to work or requires an authorized account that connects to some off site server and is authorized there before like once you use the stuff on your computer.
This is it's kind of like a weird scenario where like it used to be you could buy the Adobe software and you were purchasing the right to install it on your machine but once it was installed on your machine you could use it however you wanted for making whatever you wanted.
Presumably now because Adobe can authorize the programs to work on your computer from somewhere else they have all kinds of ways that they could decide that you're not allowed to use that thing even if you're paying the rent that you're paying to keep using the thing.
This happened in 2019 in Venezuela the US was in a fight in like a political fight with Venezuela the country and we decided to set a bunch of sanctions against the country of Venezuela and one of them was like certain kinds of businesses weren't allowed to do business with Venezuela.
So Adobe was like well we're not sure if what we're doing constitutes like the kinds of business that this sanctions say so we're just going to turn off use of Adobe Creative Cloud to anybody with a Venezuela IP address just so we don't get in trouble.
And so like no designer in Venezuela could use you know or illustrator you got figured out and it you know turned out that like Adobe didn't count as the kind of business that needed to not do business with Venezuela but it was pretty to me it was like a really interesting example of how like well maybe there's also other reasons that Adobe would decide to turn my Adobe account off or like stop lighting things work on my computer because
I like made the wrong kind of poster or I like made some accidental copyright violation.
Anyway that was a derailment but it's important to think about so having these like other avenues of like potential tools and potential resources is helpful in your future is if you don't want to have to always like pay forever the rent about Adobe to charge you and abide by their rules.
Okay the end.
The slides are the slides are linked in in Canvas but this will also take you to the Figma file for some reason you need them.
And then this will take you to a whole arena board of like information about copyright and books book references and stuff too.
But you can get there from Figma if you go to this one or find them in Canvas. Okay.
Anybody have any questions?
I can answer some of them mid talk.
Anything else?
Anybody worried that something they put out in the world is a copyright infringement?
Sorry what Sean?
Yeah in general it depends on the company.
Some companies like really don't care and they see like little things are actually like useful to them because they sort of like.
Like they're things are in the zeitgeist they're like known in culture so it like makes sense to have them referenced and it doesn't make sense to like penalize every single person or artist or writer or whatever like every time something.
But certain companies like Disney historically like they suit daycare centers for like making paintings of Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck on the side of a daycare center.
They're not infringing Disney's copyright in a meaningful way but Disney is legally allowed to prosecute those people because it is a copyright infringement still based on the black and white version of the law.
So now you should use this version of Mickey and Pete those to do whatever you want.
There's a video game that uses the artwork from the Mickey Mouse.
Yeah new pop by horror movie.
There was a Steve Bow Willie horror movie that came out last year.
January 1st last year Steve Bow Willie went into the company domain and like January 3rd there was like a press release though like hey Steve Bow Willie horror movie.
It's just like a normal murder horror horror movie.
The character is just like where is a Mickey Mouse? Any other questions?
All right then we'll wrap up.
If you are in group A look find yourself and be prepared next week to have to talk to us a little bit more in class.
But otherwise work on your plan A and look through Canvas and let us know if there's anything else that you need help figuring out or clarify.
Bow me in here in this room and four as the entire group though.
Hey, rambled more than that.
I just have a question about what I need to do for the next thing.
So what I need to do is doing the plan.
Yeah it's um...
Yeah so this everyone needs to have this answered, designed into it and next for next week.
And then some people need to start, need to have something to show for the starting like the personal brand directions.
I mean everyone just start working on that but group A will actually meet with them and look at the talks.
It's a good question.
Yeah.
So I was like, can I have a mic?
Yeah you can.
You shut up because you can't fight friends.
I thought you were talking about B.
I mean the only people...
I would get an enrollment report instead of like what the people's count as senior students.
So I wasn't paying attention or just watching.
I asked everybody to count as a senior.
That was a good question.
That's why I took out the report.
Yeah that's possible.
Yeah.
It was a good question.
What is it that you ask?
Oh we're doing the report.
Yeah great question.
It's accepted.
Sorry.
No.
Yeah.
Laurel.
Did you meet the talks?
Sorry.
I think you said this.
But I didn't meet you myself.
Yeah.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
That's good.
I don't have a room.
I don't have a room.
I don't have a room.
I don't have a room.
I don't have a room.
I don't have a room.
Okay.
We have like a campus in old studios.
If it's...
We have two of us basically.
I don't know.
Yeah.
We have a room.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Thank you.
Yeah.
I'm just gonna pick upado.
Ah yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Let me see.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Just let me check out this.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
If you're just dead, it is so much for today.
I'm excited for this.
It's presumed that you've had a lot of power to see you.
Oh, yeah.
So then, like, I just have to,
so I fell off the form and then, like,
I guess, I'll know when I'm,
if I'm accepted for this.
Oh, yeah, I mean, I haven't checked the format,
so I'll check it and all this,
anyone who's responded, I'll just immediately,
once I check it, I'll just immediately email you
and be like, just pick it up.
Okay.
I just can't let go of you.
You know, I'm just like, just keep holding on.
I don't know.
I don't know.
All right.
Cheers.
I'm really happy.
I'm happy.
Yeah, I'm happy.
All right.
I'm gonna stick my skirt.
That's good.
Oh, wait for a while.
Okay.
I still learned a lot.
Yeah.
I will.
So this is our second time seeing you doing this project.
Yeah, and I know I took pictures last night, because sometimes I need to break photos, but it's always good to have more stuff.
Yeah, that's great.
Yeah, thank you so much.
Yay! Where's my phone?
Alright, it's gonna be good.
I'm seeing you sitting there.
How are you counting down?
Well, you know how hard I like to work here.
I mean, it's really hard.
Sorry.
There's one thing about being here, like that it's really cold.
But in that frame, it's really cold.
I heard you lost one of the chances.
Very easy, right?
One of them is three.
One of them are classes.
What day?
Friday.
You really find it nice. It's Friday mornings.
Nice!
