But I appreciate everybody for coming out here.
Of course, on behalf of the Department of Art and Art
History and the FAFRA and the fine arts he is,
we have a pleasure to have Christian D'Ornard.
Christian will introduce himself a little bit,
but he is the head of the Undergraduate Department
for Graphic Design at the Maryland Institute College of
Art.
Today, we're going to talk a little bit about copywriting.
If you can, give a round of applause for Christian.
OK, so my talk today is called Copyright Commons
and Creativity.
And in the spirit of open sharing, if you for some reason
want to follow along on your device,
this QR code will take you to the presentation.
And then you can get it at the end also.
But that didn't give you time to actually scan it.
That's like a professor trick.
Say, hey, does anybody have any questions?
And then before anyone can ask questions,
you just start doing the next thing.
So you don't ever have to answer any.
Just kidding.
I totally don't do that.
OK, so I'd like to start all my presentations this way.
The current CO2 in the atmosphere,
according to the NOAA's lab in Hawaii,
is that we are now at 426 parts per million CO2.
The optimal safe amount, according
to how we have liked living on Earth,
is 350 parts per million.
So we have a lot of work to do to draw down some carbon fairly
rapidly in the coming years.
Like Henry said, I teach and work at the Maryland Institute
College of Art in Baltimore.
I'm the chair of graphic design and, well,
chair of the design departments there.
I recently was told I'm in charge of architecture
and industrial design now, too.
And we're a small private art school
where we try to merge art and design as much as we can
and give students a pretty wide set of ways
to explore their creative production
that they want to explore.
My own work, I do through a studio that I call Work.
This is meant to be a joke because my last name, Bjornard,
has a J in it that no one knows how to pronounce.
So I thought, why not name my studio a way
that people might not understand?
And I do a lot of book and publication projects,
identities, web and app design.
But my new set of things that I've been exploring
is more at the intersection of how
just our everyday actions in the world
can still be like graphic design.
They can signal the kind of change that we want to see.
And so this project is called Spontaneous Lamp.
We needed a lamp to cantilever out over our dining table.
And my wife has been looking at all these things.
And I was like, what if we just made a lamp?
And even better, what if I made the lamp out
of the refuse that's just already around our house?
So I took a bucket I had in the basement,
wandered around the neighborhood collecting rubble and debris,
went across to the park and cut down some bamboo
from an invasive bamboo thicket, and then with a lamp cord
that I already had cobbled together this lamp.
And I think it worked out.
And I've been doing that now every time.
Wherever I can, how do we make something
where the parts we have come together to do the action?
And then more importantly, when that requirement is over,
that the things can go back to being the materials they were
before.
A sort of more intense version of this
is a project I started with some colleagues
called People Processing Plastic.
And we've been exploring how, with lo-fi methods,
can we basically recycle plastic ourselves.
So we built some lo-fi melting ovens and presses
and have been making big sheets of HDPE
and seeing how we can use them on a CNC machine
or what other ways can we mold them or play around with them.
And again, it's more of a performance
than an intent of making a bunch of objects to sell.
But how through showing people how recycling works,
can we demonstrate perhaps why it doesn't make sense
to do single stream recycling and send plastic away?
Or that we don't need to make any new plastic.
All the plastic we could ever need has already
been made if we would only actually reuse it or remake it.
And so even our little sign in the background
shows that we take these six pack rings,
we press them into things, they turn into this material.
And I think one other aspect of this
is we treat a lot of things as disposable now in culture.
And this is something like number two plastic,
which is what we use, is often discarded.
But it's one of the most indestructible things
that we make.
It doesn't really make sense that it would be discarded.
It's easy to reuse.
It has a bunch of really good properties
where you can make it safe for use in food.
It holds up in UV light, so it doesn't degrade outside.
Anyway, how can we take something
that we're treating as trash and make it something valuable
again?
And then I had this idea talking to a colleague who's
making paper from prairie grass.
And so the paper is technically carbon negative paper.
The prairie grass draws down more carbon
and keeps it in the soil because you can just
cut the prairie grass, and the prairie grass keeps growing
to make the paper.
And so I was like, well, that's really cool.
How can we make the entire book a carbon sink?
And so I've been talking to some engineers
at Johns Hopkins University about is there
some way to find something that I could put into an ink where
over time, it took carbon out of the atmosphere
and turned the ink black while the book just
sat on your desk.
And so you'd have to be patient before you could read the book.
It turns out that most things that
are capable of breaking that carbon oxygen bond
are incredibly caustic.
And so far, there's not a solution
to this that is safe to sell people.
But these are the kinds of things
that I've been thinking about as a designer now.
And I think it exemplifies this idea that design is also
a tool that we can use to ask and answer questions
and that it isn't something that has
to be used in the service of a client,
that there's all kinds of self-expression ways
that the tools of design are available for us to use.
So we're going to start talking about copyright now.
And just my legal caveat is that I am not a lawyer.
So this is not legal advice.
This is just I've researched these things,
and this is how I understand them to work.
If you are in a real copyright problem space,
you should ask a lawyer.
You shouldn't count on my having told you
the correct information.
I'm not making up anything or lying to you,
but yeah, I'll give you the caveat.
OK, so I'm going to tell you two stories to get started.
One's called The Myth of the Author.
In the land of creativity lived authors,
magical beings who could pull down original creations
from the ether and give them form.
Authors then protected these powerful creations,
locking them away in their towers like Rapunzel,
and only through their permission,
granted by giving them offering or some kind of sacrifice,
would authors allow their creations to be accessed.
Authors were powerful magicians, and that even
upon their death, their protective wards
didn't immediately fade.
It would take at least 70 years for their magic
to finally wear off, for their towers
to crumble, and their creations to enter back out
into the world.
However, authors have kept working on ways
to extend their protections and keep their creations
to themselves forever.
That's like a pessimistic view of authorship.
OK, this is the myth of the commons to go along with that.
So in the beginning, culture was always free.
The lands brimmed with possibility,
and there existed a utopian ideal called the commons.
The commons was no ordinary place.
It was a boundless field where all knowledge, resources, art,
and innovation flowed freely, unencumbered by walls or gates
or protections of any kind.
It was said that within the commons,
anyone could take what they needed,
build upon what they found, and then give back
their creations for others to do the same.
Harmony and abundance reigned, for there
was no mine or no yours, only the collective ours.
OK, so these are sort of extremist tales of authorship
versus the public domain.
But I think they're useful to sort of frame the context,
because there is a real binary between things
that we want to protect with copyright,
and things that suddenly become the public domain
and then have no protections at all.
But obviously, the reality is blurrier and grayer
that we actually live and work in between those.
So I'll try to sort of, in more detail,
explain the copyright version, what's
happening with copyright, what happens when copyright expires
and we enter into the public domain,
and then how can we, as creative producers,
if you want to, find ways where we
can work in the gray space between those binaries.
OK, so to sort of preemptively describe
one aspect of copyright, this is Mickey Mouse.
Does anybody know what's special about this Mickey Mouse?
That you can barely see.
It's open source, yeah.
What?
It's from Steamboat Willie.
It's from Steamboat Willie.
And what does that mean?
It's now part of public domain.
It's in the public domain now.
You can use Mickey Mouse however you want,
but only this version uses Mickey Mouse.
So any Mickey Mouse that is in here
is a Steamboat Willie clip.
I clipped it out of Steamboat Willie.
Steamboat Willie was the first cartoon
that Disney produced that used Mickey
Mouse as the main character.
It was also the first mainstream use
of syncing sound and animation together.
If you haven't seen it, you can go to Wikimedia Commons
and watch it 10,000 times, if you want,
and not worry about infringing anyone's copyright.
OK, so copyright.
Copyright is a fairly new invention, predominantly
of European invention.
The first place to really officially say
they were protecting the rights of authors was England.
And that was in 1710.
And basically, authors were getting
tired of publishers printing as many copies
as they wanted of their books.
And so they worked to try to empower the rights of authors
over the power of publishers.
In 1787, when the United States removed itself from England,
part of the freedoms that we said we needed
was the freedom to control our intellectual property.
That led to the first US Copyright Act in 1790.
The Founding Fathers made sure to prefer
the rights of American authors over other authors.
The way that copyright law works today
is based on what's called the Berne Convention, which
first was written in 1886.
And it created the first international copyright law,
where a bunch of different countries
sort of agreed to adhere to the same minimum standards
of intellectual property protection.
And that's now been the document that
has continued to be added onto and had
more and more signer countries sign onto.
So today, the Berne Convention is
managed by the United Nations.
And almost every single country that's
part of the United Nations has agreed
to the minimum protections that are in the Berne Convention.
That is that you as an author, and I'm
going to keep saying author, because that's
what's written in all of the legal documents.
And if you look at what time these things started
getting figured out, the main people
we were working with who were making cultural production that
could be reproduced were authors.
So it was about written documents and printed
documents.
But now author refers to anyone who makes a creative work.
So it could be an actual writer, but it could be a painter.
It could be a photographer.
It could be a developer who's writing code.
It could be a filmmaker.
It can be other weird kinds of new experimental things
that we're just sort of figuring out.
All of these things now count as authorship,
making any of these things.
We'll get into that a little bit more.
But then the US has done a bunch of things
on their own that have extended the Berne Convention
within the United States.
So in 1976, we extended the time that copyright
could be protected from 28 years to 50 years.
And then from 50 years to 70 years
after the death of the author.
And then in 98, there are two main things happened.
One was that the term extension happened
even longer for anonymous and corporate works.
This was called the Mickey Mouse Protection Act.
This is actually, according to the old US copyright law,
when Steamboat Willie should have gone into public domain.
But Disney, I sound like I hate Disney.
They're an easy bad guy in all this.
Disney, through Sonny Bono, got the Mickey Mouse Protection Act
passed, which extended copyright protection
to 95 years for anonymous or corporately authored works.
So that Steamboat Willie just entered the public domain
because of this law.
Anyway, so copyright is a bunch of laws that basically say,
you as a producer of intellectual property
can decide who gets to make reproductions
and in what ways they reproduce them.
And so it's technically a useful thing for all of us
as cultural producers.
It also says, since the Berne Convention in 1886,
that as soon as you author a thing,
you own the intellectual property of it.
You don't have to register it.
You don't have to do anything else.
Just by putting it out into the world,
you're now the owner of that intellectual property.
There's a wrinkle in the United States
where, if you want to sue somebody
for infringing your copyright, you
have to have registered the copyright of that thing.
That's sort of like a side note.
In other countries, that's not the case.
In France, who really loves giving authors
protection over their work, there's
nothing you have to do, no registration or anything.
You can just immediately be litigious
if you see anyone doing anything with your work
that you don't like.
So this is the diagram of how copyright sees
creative production working.
You have some idea, like chairness
is an idea out in the world.
And you know you need to sit on something.
And so you're inspired.
You use your creativity.
You have a gesture to take your idea and turn it into form.
And then if you've made an original unique creation,
you get to claim copyright of that thing.
So Mickey, in our diagram here, has just
invented shaker chairs.
Congratulations, Mickey.
One thing that copyright is really clear on,
though, is that ideas aren't copyrightable,
but expressions of ideas are what's copyrightable.
So you having an idea isn't enough to be able to claim
copyright of something.
You can't see a chair and be like, yeah,
but I thought of chairs.
You can't make a chair that you're
infringing my copyright.
No, you have to have also made a chair
to claim infringement.
And the infringement has to be about
that specific original unique creation, that specific chair.
So so far, I haven't made any copyright infringements,
but I'm about to.
So here's four unique chair gestures,
four unique gestures that have resulted
in four different original unique creations, all of which
are three of which are still protected by copyright.
So we've got the Ames' side chair, right chairness.
To that is one unique expression.
This is called the Oketerra chair
by some of my friends in Baltimore.
That's a different unique expression of chairness.
This is Felipe Stark's ghost chair,
which is a unique expression of chairness,
although it's actually not unique.
It's based on the Louis XVI chair design.
But it counts as a unique expression
because that chair design, the Louis XVI chair,
was in the public domain.
And so he can make a new interpretation of that chair
without needing to ask anybody's permission
and then now own copyright of that expression of that chair.
And then this is the Rietveld chair,
which you've probably seen in our history class
if you've covered De Stijl.
And this is in the public domain now.
So you can make a copy of this chair if you want.
In fact, a friend of mine who has a wood shop,
he just got asked to make like 100 of these
for this like resort in the Hamptons.
And I was like, oh, did you know this is like
the public domain famous chair design?
He's like, no, they just sent me the chair.
Told me to make it.
Anyway, so okay, so that everybody get like,
you got an idea, you make a unique creation,
and then you can claim copyright of that unique creation.
Is that clear so far?
Okay, so we're Mickey and we've got our unique chair,
but we only can protect this chair design for our life
plus 70 years afterwards.
So the estate of Mickey Mouse can keep protecting
this chair design for up to 70 years.
And once you like hit that threshold,
you like just like pass through the barrier
into the public domain.
So as soon as like that time limits up
on January 1st the next year,
that design is then in the public domain
and free for everybody to use.
So copyright has this like very clear binary
when things are protected or they're not
and there's no like in between
or like fading off of protection over time.
It's just like it is protected
and then it isn't protected.
So here's an example of how things go from protected to not
and some other nuances that come along with that
when we think about how copyright law describes
how you get ownership and control over your idea.
So Henry Matisse died in 1954.
That means that 2024 was 70 years after his death.
So every drawing, every print, every painting
that Matisse's hands produced are now in the public domain.
So that means I can show you this photo
the portrait of Madame Matisse
also known as the Green Stripe.
And it's not a copyright infringement to show you this
or is it?
It's like a philosophical question.
Did you take the photo?
No.
Does that matter?
Do you think?
Yeah.
Yeah, because that would be like a unique expression
of the idea.
I mean, it would be a new creative work
because it was a photograph.
In this context, that's important
because it's in the public domain
but only as of last week.
So if I had taken that photo two weeks ago
it would have been a copyright infringement
because it still would have been in copyright
and it didn't ask to take the photograph
and that counts as a reproduction.
But now that it is in the public domain
taking a photograph of it means I now,
I don't own, I can't claim ownership over the paintings
but I can claim ownership over the photo of the painting.
But also if you're using it in an educational sense
doesn't it not count as copyright infringement?
We'll get to that in a second but no, it doesn't.
It's still a infringement.
Okay, so I didn't take that photo
but I went to the website of the museum
that owns the painting, the National Museum of Denmark.
And as of last week they now say
that this photo is for free use.
So when the painting went into public domain
they switched over to the rights of their photos
of the works to also be in the public domain.
And that's like a nice thing
that a lot of museums and libraries do
since they mostly believe in open access
to information and to cultural content.
But technically whoever photographed this
for the state's museum owned the copyright.
And the museum themselves decided to like
probably ask the photographer as part of the contract
to take the stuff that they weren't gonna keep the rights
and the museum needed the rights
because you can transfer the copyright.
And then now that this one is in public domain
they decided to switch over the rights
also to the public domain.
And so you can now use this photo also however you want.
You just go to, what is it, smk.open, what an easy URL.
And you can download any of the Denmark,
National Museum of Denmark's artworks
that are in the public domain.
Okay, so what else might constitute a copyright violation?
Has anybody ever reposted a meme
without looking up where the image and the meme came from?
You're all copyright infringers.
Has anybody ever tweeted something
where you just excerpted some text from somewhere
and didn't pay attention, didn't care where it came from
but just posted it out to the ether?
Copyright infringers.
Did you ever look up an image on Google Images
and then include it in something
without paying attention to where it came from
or asking anybody for permission?
Copyright infringers.
So basically like all these things we do every day
that don't really seem like a big deal
are all technically illegal in the eyes of copyright.
And it's just up to the holders of that copyright
to decide if they're gonna do something about it or not.
In most cases it's like not a big enough deal
that if they want to bother to do something about it
or there's just like too many to pay attention to.
But under the eyes of copyright law,
every single one of those things is illegal
and can be prosecuted.
And why you should care is that
each time you infringe a copyright
you can be liable for up to $150,000 per time.
Per time.
Per time.
So if you like used 10 images
that you just randomly found in a design project
and all 10 of those people were like,
hey, like you're infringing my copyright
by including this thing in a reproduction
that you didn't ask me about.
Every single one of them you could potentially owe $150,000.
And so this, I think this will answer your question
about educational use.
Often people say, but it's fair use.
And fair use is like a myth.
Fair use is something that can only be proved
as a defense in court and it's decided by the judge
that's overseeing the court case.
It's not something that you can declare ahead of time
except for in a very limited set of circumstances
that have been, have had like legal cases
over and over again about them.
Documentary filmmaking has a lot of like fair use law
that's sort of like you can be pretty safe
in doing X, Y, or Z.
If you've like are using clips
that are only in service of the story
you're trying to tell
or you're using a certain amount of time with these things.
But again, you can still be sued by those people
and you still have to argue in court
that you're like adhering to a fair use doctrine
and not just like using the thing.
The one other place where fair use shows up all the time
where you probably won't ever be brought to court
is like quoting things in papers or in essays.
The idea that you like quote something and you cite it
as long as the quote that you're doing
is sort of like in the purpose
of what you're trying to explain
is you're probably never gonna be taken to court over that
unless you've quoted like 10 pages in a row of something
and it like is telling the story
that you're trying to tell yourself.
One other place is news.
If you're doing things for the purpose of news
or for like reporting for like conveying facts,
if the thing that you're excerpting
just as conveying the fact that you're trying to convey
that is considered a fair use
that has like enough legal history
that you're not gonna be in trouble.
Another caveat to that is like facts aren't copyrightable
but the like pros around the facts could be copyrightable.
Like a cooking recipe isn't copyrightable
but the language in which you explain
how to cook the recipe is copyrightable.
So that's why you might find,
a lot of cookbooks are like,
oh, this is so-and-so's tomato sauce recipe
and they just like verbatim copied the recipe,
like use these ingredients
and then they write their own explanation
of how you actually cook that thing
and that's how like the cookbook industry survives.
Okay, I had compressed a lot of legalese into a few minutes
so I'm gonna move on from copyright
to then like the kind of counterpoint,
the commons or the public domain.
And so the commons is an idea and it encompasses,
oh, there we go, it encompasses all the things
that we collectively use or collectively own
or collectively sort of want to preserve for our future.
In the past, this usually referred to things like
the woods and the fields and the streams and the air
and the mountains and the oceans
but it increasingly includes all kinds
of other cultural production things as well.
And the Nobel Prize winning economist, Elinor Ostrom,
she won her Nobel Prize for her work around the commons.
She would tell you that the commons
isn't just those resources
but it's like the self-governing systems that humans create
to preserve and protect and extend those resources.
And so like a cultural commons is a thing
that fits into Elinor Ostrom's idea
and the public domain is sort of like
in the way that copyright thinks
about what the cultural commons is.
Elinor Ostrom, when you hear about the commons,
the main thing that especially
like a neoliberal economist would tell you
is they'd love to tell you the story
of the tragedy of the commons,
which is this idea that like, if we have shared space,
there will be bad actors that will take more from that space
than that space can maintain
and that eventually the commons will be destroyed
by those bad actors.
You can actually see that playing out in reality right now
that all these companies have externalized the cost
of environmental extraction and human labor extraction
and the world is a worse place,
although statistically the world is a better place.
But the world is a worse place for that.
Elinor Ostrom would say that
that isn't the tragedy of the commons,
that is people not following the rules
of the self-governing commons
and people are playing by a different set of systems
that ignore the idea of the commons.
And if you want to know more about that,
Elinor Ostrom is both a Nobel Prize winning economist
and somebody who's good at explaining things.
So I'd highly recommend all of her writing and thinking.
Okay, so the public domain, like I said,
is a subset of the commons.
And when things exit copyright,
so we've hit that death of the author date,
we've hit the 70 years or we've hit the 95 years
after production for things like corporate authored works,
these things enter the public domain
and they are just like magically now free
for us to do whatever we want with.
You can use them however you want,
you can make your own things and redistribute them,
you can take pieces of them and make derivative works,
you can take the characters and make your own storylines
that use those same characters,
you can take the literal animations
and make your own storylines,
you can just screen the films as many times as you want
to whomever you want.
It's like a pretty cool place
if you want to make stuff to draw from.
One other way that things enter the public domain
is not everything has to hit that threshold
to enter the public domain.
Some governments, particularly the US government,
if they've made, if the US government has made something
like a written document, a photograph,
and it doesn't need to be classified or protected
for some other important reason,
it immediately enters the public domain.
So this photo is a NASA photo,
which means the US government photo.
This is taken by the Apollo 17,
the Apollo 17 crew in 1968.
So technically, it is a commercially authored work,
and so it would have like 95 years upon creation
to be in the public domain.
But as soon as they took it, it was a public domain image.
That actually didn't happen until 1977.
So at the time, it was still protected.
So in 1977, it became a public domain image
when we updated our copyright law.
This has now become the most used image on Earth.
The most used image on Earth is an image of Earth.
Isn't that kind of cool?
And the main reason is that it's been in the public domain.
It was sort of like fairly immediately in the public domain
and was the first picture of the Earth
and remained being one of the few pictures
of the whole Earth, even to this day.
There's not a ton more.
So it continues to be used.
I think the other thing that's nice about it
is that it's kind of centered on the ocean
in between Africa and South Africa and Antarctica.
And so it doesn't feel like it's trying to be
about one place being more important than someone else.
To me, it's like a nice image of the Earth that way, too.
Okay, sorry, that was a digression.
Okay, so here's an example of how we can draw
from the public domain, and then it's ruining it.
That's up to you.
You can decide if enclosure of the public domain
is bad or not.
So again, Disney's just like an easy villain.
They're not really the worst people on Earth.
So Snow White came out in 1937.
It was the first full-length animation that Disney made.
This is still under copyright, so this is an infringement
that I'm using these stills of Snow White.
They based it on a Grimm Brothers tale,
and that at the time was already in the public domain.
So there was no reason you couldn't use that
for whatever you wanted.
But now, the Disney version of Snow White
is under copyright still for 10 more years.
And so you can't make anything that seems
like the Disney Snow White.
You can't make your Snow White wear a dress like this.
You can't name the seven dwarves the same names.
Any other little things that they tweaked
about the story of Snow White, you need to make sure
that you don't do that when you tell your story of Snow White.
You have to base it on still the Grimm Brothers tale
or some other older version of Snow White
that is in the public domain.
And so this to me is like a weird kind of enclosure.
In the commons, when it was physical space,
there's talk of how you can close the commons
by literally walling off space that used to be public
and making it private instead.
And you can do this intellectually
from the cultural commons as well.
And I think the entirety of most of Disney's oeuvre
is doing this.
You take a public domain story, you take a known folktale
from somewhere on Earth, and you turn it
into your property.
And then you litigiously enforce not being able
to copy it by anyone else, including daycare centers.
And I have an intellectual ethical problem with this.
It's not illegal, but it just seems disingenuous to me.
Because I think the point of drawing on the public domain,
the point of drawing on the commons
is that you also want to embrace copying and remixing
and iteratively changing things.
So if I want to make stuff this way,
I needed to look for other places
other than just the public domain
and the rules of copyright to think about
how my work could still be protected
and live in the world in a coherent way
that wasn't just the public domain,
but that didn't have all the restrictions of copyright
so that other people could do things
without having to ask me all the time.
So one place that really has lived this way
since the birth of the software industry
is this idea of FLOSS, or Free Libre Open Source Software.
The proponents of Libre versus Open Source
will argue that you shouldn't lump them all together
because they're ideologically different,
but for the context of how they work as the commons,
they culturally sort of work the same way.
And this sort of vein of software
rose out of this guy Richard Stallman
and his work in the 80s on a program called GNU.
And Stallman worked at the MIT Artificial Intelligence Lab
and this has like a graphic design connection
because it revolves around a printer.
And they got a printer from Xerox
and it was one of the first printers
that you could network in an office.
And so anywhere they were in the lab,
they could print to this printer.
But it had this like annoying bug
where if there was an error,
it wouldn't tell anyone that there was an error
and it would just like stop printing.
And then anyone else who sent a print
would just be like waiting to be like,
ah, why didn't my print come out yet?
And there was no way to find out what was wrong.
And so Stallman like asked Xerox for the source code
and he wrote his own new program to add to it
that would then like alert your terminal
that there was a print error
so that you could go resolve it on the printer
and then get your thing to print.
And so like a year later, Xerox sends them the new version
because they're about to start selling these printers.
And Stallman's like, ah, this error is,
there's still this annoying print error.
Can I have the source code again?
And they're like, no, we're selling this now.
And so this is like closed, this is proprietary software.
We're not sharing this anymore.
And my interpretation of the story is Stallman is so mad
by this that he quits his job and says,
I'm never using proprietary software ever.
I'm only gonna use software that I can edit the source code.
And then he finds out that AT&T might do the same thing
with Unix, which is like the operating system
that they're using.
He's like, I can't use Unix anymore.
We have to write our own operating system.
And so they write GNU, which stands for
GNU is not Unix.
Anyway, and so he is ideologically around this idea
of like real freedom and that like,
he doesn't care that the software costs money.
He only cares that you have access to the source code.
He'll pay for your software,
but when he pays for your software,
he just wants the code so that he can fix it
if he needs to.
Just like if you buy a car, historically,
if you bought a car, you could fix your own car.
If you bought a toaster, you could fix your own toaster.
He wanted to like, you bought this code,
you should be able to fix your own code.
Anyway, so GNU then starts the GNU public license,
which basically is a software license which says,
you can do whatever you want with this code,
but if you build anything on top of this,
you have to share your code also.
You can use anything we've done as a starting place
as long as you keep sharing your things moving forward.
Okay, so that is the 80s and then by the end of the 90s,
right, like computers are taking off.
This guy Eric Raymond gets really impressed by Linux,
the operating system Linux and Linux basically took
most of the code of GNU
and just built a new kernel to run all,
to basically be the brain of the operating system.
Eric Raymond was surprised,
Eric Raymond's also a developer and is like using Linux
and he's like, how did Linux get so good so fast?
It's only been out for a few years and he finds out
that it's just like started by this guy
Linus Torvald in Finland who was a hacker
and he started posting on a user,
like an internet chat forum that he was like working
on this kernel to better run GNU
and other people were like, oh, I would like to use that too.
Can I help you work on it?
And they were just like this collected group of people
sharing code over the internet,
were like magically able to make an operating system
faster and better than like Windows at the time.
And this sort of blew Eric Raymond away
and he wrote this essay called
The Cathedral and the Bazaar,
which basically just outlines this like sharing culture
and that like the cathedral model would be Microsoft
saying here's our plan and everyone has to work
along this timeline to make this giant end plan
versus the bizarre model,
which is like this random group of people,
each just solving the thing they wanna solve
and by sharing all those solutions together,
sort of like rapidly build a similar thing or a better thing
and so what we think of as open source software today
is really based on like Eric Raymond's explanation
of how Linus Torvald and the Linux hackers
put Linux together.
He convinced Netscape to sort of like work this way
so that's why like Netscape became open source
and he also wrote a different license
than the GNU public license,
which he thought the main reason that corporations
hadn't bought into GNU was that it said you had to share
all the stuff that you made afterwards
and that he was more interested in open source
because you could share things and like rapidly fix things
so he helped write this license called the MIT license,
which basically just says as long as you credit
where you got this code,
you can do anything you want afterwards,
including close off your source.
So he basically wrote like a public domain software license,
which Richard Stallman didn't like
and that's like the divide between free Libre software
and open source software is that like Libre software
you have to share virally
and open source software you can enclose,
but it's still about sharing at least ostensibly.
Okay, one last software connection
to like cultural production as an artist or designer,
this guy Garth Brathwaite who works for Adobe,
he was working on an open source web project
called Brackets, which was like a coding program
and they were, he had come from more of a developer,
background was like developers get how to share a code,
like why do designers have such a hard time
sharing design files and things?
And so he realized that like one of the issues
with design things is that there's often like some client
that specifically wants to show people that
and that you don't want everyone else to have replicated
the thing that you're showing,
but that there's still ways that we could like share
how we made things or the failures that led us
to the success that would still kind of like open up
the cultural space of production
and even if it wasn't sharing your logo files,
it would still be sort of like helping other people
improve faster or sort of like helping improve
the cultural production design landscape as a whole.
Okay, I elaborated more than I meant to
on some of these things, so let me catch my breath.
Okay, so I got into open source software
and then it really reminded me of just like,
it didn't seem like it was different.
It seemed like it embraced the ideas that like we embrace
as regular participants in culture,
that you see things that you like,
you see things that work
and you want to reproduce those things.
You don't want to have to like ask somebody for permission
or like pay for access.
You want to just like do that thing
and the real history of making stuff
is much more that model of like common designs
by common people for common needs
and when somebody solved something,
you don't solve it again.
You just like use what your neighbor did
for solving that thing.
When I was in grad school,
I read this book called How Buildings Learn.
This is a copyright infringement.
By the way, I took this photo,
but I didn't ask for permission to reproduce the cover,
so copyright infringement.
Another one will check.
Okay, so I read this book in grad school
and Stewart Brand outlines basically that like
the way that buildings become good buildings,
he's like, turns out Stewart Brand
is really against like architect design buildings
because they're often like single purpose
and like don't work, they don't evolve well.
You can't like add things on to them.
You can't change them.
You can't move things around in them.
In this book, at least this is his hot take.
Stewart Brand historically has been one
for like people doing stuff themselves
and so this book,
which was my first entryway into Stewart Brand,
like I said, describes building,
the best buildings as being things
that like have evolved over time
and that when like a neighbor figures out
how to add a shed to the side of their Cape Cod house
and it like looks nice and stays standing up
and keeps the water out,
that like the other neighbors add that thing on
and so like as a whole,
there's sort of like a design language
that an area builds over time
where like successful things are repeated
and the unsuccessful things are ignored,
but there's like cultural memory
and so you like can tell people that like
we tried that already, like do this other thing instead
and again, that feels like useful thinking
as a cultural producer that wants to share
and like iterate with others.
Some of the other things Stewart Brand's contributed
to culture, he started this thing
called the Whole Earth Catalog,
which is basically like the internet in a book
from like 1969 and so if you wanted to like
put solar hot water heat on your geodesic dome
on your hippie commune,
it was the book for you, for sure.
He also, anyway.
So from open source, from these ideas
of like vernacular design
and sort of like libertarian DIY hippie culture,
where everybody sort of like wanted to help each other
through like mutual aid and interesting production,
I think we can kind of think about making stuff different,
like makers, developers, curators,
we can help maintain and share the culture that we make
in hopes that like more makers, developers, curators,
et cetera, like do more stuff with that
and like contribute their things back
and we don't have to just wait
for the commons to come around,
we can just like actively all be participating.
Okay, so if we want to do this with our work,
then what's the best way to start doing that today?
Richard Solomon calls this copyleft,
the idea that you're like purposefully sharing
and making other people share.
I thought it'd be funny to call it copy wrong.
So if you want to copy wrong,
then the best place for us to look
is this organization called Creative Commons.
And they were started by a lawyer, Lawrence Lessig,
who just felt that like the binary of copyright protection
and open public domain was like too extreme.
And we as creators needed more ways
to like keep control over intellectual property,
but immediately let it be used and shared
in that sort of like open source way.
So they have a bunch of different licensing options.
If you want to go through all of them,
they're easy to find on their website.
My favorite one is the CC by SA,
this stands for Creative Commons by Attribution,
share alike.
So that means like if I license one of my photos
or designs as CC by SA, anyone who comes across it,
as long as they link back to me
or like attribute it in text somewhere back to me
and then share their files or their image
or whatever they make with it the same way,
they don't have to ask me for permission.
They've done their diligence by like following
the instructions according to Creative Commons.
And so they have other versions
that are like more or less lenient,
like just by attribution or by attribution,
but like no commercial works or no derivative works.
So like I have a book called Copy This Book
about copyright law by this Belgian guy.
And his entire book is licensed Creative Commons
by Attribution, no derivatives,
because he wants the book to be shared,
but he doesn't want people to like cut it up
or rewrite it or do anything else with it,
but he doesn't care that you like give it away
to other people for free.
Creative Commons has tried to make this easier too
by building this sort of form to help you decide
what license works.
So they basically ask you questions about like,
do you want Disney to use your thing?
Do you want people to link back to you?
And how you answer it, it just tells you then
like which license you need to list
as your Creative Commons license.
One other one they have is the CC0 license,
which just says you immediately put your thing
in the public domain.
So it doesn't have to wait for your death plus seven years.
It's just like immediately in the public domain.
That's a cool, that's awesome to do that,
but I think it's smarter to like keep control over it
and do things like the share,
like where you force other people to share.
That might mean that some people don't use your thing,
but it also means that like the people that do,
you're like helping make culture more open
as opposed to like letting it be free,
but immediately enclosed.
Okay, if you want to find stuff,
like you've decided you want to do this
and your things are now licensed this way,
but you want to find other people's things,
there's a handful of sites that are really easy
to find things on.
This is called Openverse.
It was actually started by Creative Commons,
but now is run by Automattic,
the company that makes WordPress,
which is like one of the main open source
content management systems for websites.
This, you just search for what you're looking for
and it will find videos, audio files, or images
and then tell you what license they are
and link you to like where you need to go
to like download it if they can't make it easy
to download themselves.
Flickr also has an area called the Commons
where they do this.
They've mostly partnered with like libraries and museums
to put public domain works on Flickr.
This one's called Open Art Images.
As far as I can tell, this is just like run by a developer
who's into this stuff.
It searches a lot of these same places,
like art museums in Europe and North America,
libraries, college, and university collections.
What's weird is like a lot of these draw in the same sources
but like searching each one returns different results,
even though they're like searching ostensibly
a lot of the same things.
If you want the coolest interface
for a Creative Commons public domain work,
this is called public.work and it's run
by this new company called Cosmos,
which is basically trying to make like a Pinterest
for designers thing.
But they built this cool interface
for browsing public domain work, so that's cool.
Raw Pixel, which is a company that sells stock photos
and also runs a sort of like Canva,
Adobe Express online poster maker thing,
has this like huge public domain section.
And something that's cool that they've done
is that they've actually bought some works themselves,
like books of wood prints, wood block prints and stuff,
and have made their own like super high res fancy scans
of them, so like they have some of the best images.
Like this is the start of a William Morris library
and they bought one of the like William Morris pattern books
and then like cut it up and scanned all the things
themselves and you can get like 5,000 pixel wide scans
of these like old William Morris, anyway.
They put a lot of work into it,
which ostensibly actually means they didn't have
to make them public domain,
because these were in the public domain.
They reproduced them and edited them themselves.
They could have cleaned copyright over them,
but they decided to keep them unenclosed
and made them public domain again.
And then Unsplash doesn't have a creative commons license
or public domain license.
They've written their own Unsplash license,
which they're a startup.
They have sort of like a software startup kind of mentality.
So their Unsplash license,
it sounds a lot like the MIT software license.
It just says, you can download these,
use them for whatever you want.
You can use them for any purpose.
You don't have to ask for permission,
though we hope that you attribute it.
The only thing you can't do is sell them
or like make your own service
that also distributes photos to people with these things.
So this is like a pretty good place
to get pretty nice modern photos also.
Okay, Google Fonts has Open Type.
All of their fonts are licensed,
in the last decade are licensed
with what's called the Open Font license,
which we don't have time to get
into the potential objective problems with that license,
but they use the Open Font license,
which means you can do a lot of stuff with them.
My favorite open source typeface foundry
is this French one called Velveteen.
The other cool thing with a lot of these open source images
and typefaces is that because they're open,
they're free to access,
a lot of people build their own ways to interface with them.
So this is called Badass Librefonts by Women.
And so this woman, Lorraine Ferter in Belgium,
who's a proponent of open culture
and also social equity,
specifically curated this list of women made fonts
and they're all open source also.
So that's a cool thing.
This is my own collection on Arena of open source fonts.
That QR code will take you to this if you want that.
I've spent a lot of time working on finding things.
So there's some things in here that you can't find easily
unless you've accidentally stumbled upon them
in the deep dark corners of the internet.
Okay, too many things.
Okay, there are then some groups
that actively try to promote the public domain
and freeing culture and participating
in the cultural commons.
One of the best ones is this site, Public Domain Review,
and they do an amazing job of publishing collections
of images, but also explaining where the images came from
and that kind of, okay.
Archive.org is another place to look.
They maintain this thing called the Prellinger Archive.
This guy, Rick Prellinger, has collected a lot of film.
He also believes that culture should be free.
So he's worked with Archive.org to get everything
that he has that can legally be up on there on Archive.org.
So if you're looking for film resources,
that's a good place to start.
Okay, I think I'm kind of running out of time.
Okay, I am into these things because I don't want
to be constrained by the status quo
or the sort of only what's possible or what's expected.
And Don and Robbie like to talk about how design,
you can use design to be critical or to be speculative
and sort of challenge the agendas around us.
And I think that trying to find ways to protect your work
but also open it up or to rely on these other open sources
is a nice way to sort of fight against the kind of entropy
of everyone doing the same thing and using the same images.
I mean, I listed Unsplash as a resource,
but if you do a little quick perusal of the internet
and any Squarespace or Wix site, it's like 98% likely
that they have the same 20 Unsplash images
as the splash header of their website
because it's a free thing and they have an EPI
and so all these other places just sort of link in
to some of these things.
But I'll tell you where they don't link into
is old etchings from 19th century books
that you can only find through like really esoteric searches
on Flickr.
And so I'm, anyway, I'm into that.
And if you are too, I'd love to talk to you more about it.
So that's the end for now.
Good talk.
Thanks.
Okay, once again, that's the code to the talk.
I know it's six o'clock.
So you have to go, I totally understand.
We are gonna stay five or 10 minutes.
We get to get up and leave, I totally understand.
But is there any questions before we leave?
I got too excited.
Yeah.
Have you had any of your own work infringed
for money?
Yeah, yeah.
I have some posters I made in grad school.
You can buy on Amazon, and just some random person
sells them on cups and stuff.
And I mean, I was like, oh, that's kind of,
I thought it was humorously funny,
because I wasn't going to make any money from those things.
So seeing a random stranger found them and was like,
this should be on a cup for sure, just seemed amusing.
But since then, that wasn't an infringement,
because those weren't licensed in any particular way.
Almost anything that isn't a client project,
if it's on the internet somewhere,
like on Flickr or on my own site,
it has been licensed as some derivative of Creative Commons.
So it wouldn't be surprising now to see that.
But yeah, it has happened to me.
Do we have anything else before we conclude?
OK, let's get another round of applause for Christian.
Thank you guys for coming out tomorrow.
Christian will be giving a workshop on this stuff.
There's 25 people signed up.
If you've already emailed Sandy, if you
didn't get a confirmation, if you're still part of it,
I have your name on a list.
If there's still five or so more slots,
so if you haven't signed up and you're here today
and you would like to come and work with us,
tomorrow between 10 and 2, we will be in room 273.
We're going to start promptly at 10 o'clock then.
If there's nothing else, then Christian and I
will stick around for a minute.
But I hope you guys have a great rest of the weekend
and a great start to the semester.
Thank you.
Thanks, everybody.
Thank you.
I like your utilitarian dress.
Oh, yeah.
I wear it like a snow suit.
It's a little warm, you know?
Thank you.
I think it's 10 to 2, so it starts in the morning.
No, we should have everything prepared for everybody.
We're basically going to use public domain.
I mean, like a clip art book of public domain.
We're going to make new little visual stories.
It takes a little bit of time to turn into a work
and you can decide how you're going to do it.
So we'll be clear with the copyright.
It's already set up.
It's still going on.
It's just going on.
Thank you, guys.
Thank you, guys.
I'm really excited for you.
Thanks for your time.
I want to go back through that and follow up with some.
I'm really excited for you.
You guys have a good rest of the weekend.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I can't believe it.
Yeah.
I just asked because my dad had a screen print company.
In the 80s, we had guest jeans completely ripped off
of design, like 100% of that.
It was sold in Hawaii and no one said, guest jeans.
I'm thinking, shit, here's the guest.
And my dad's company was this small.
And so they just did.
It's his system.
I'm just curious.
Because I'd be pissed if a big company just ripped it off
to do the same thing and just compete.
We have, I mean, the graphic design
doesn't have it so much.
But I've had some students from our illustration
department two weeks ago, and they're students still.
And they were like, hey, Urban Outfitters is selling a shirt
with basically my designer.
I'm like, you definitely need to figure out what you do about
that.
Here, go talk to Maryland lawyers for the arts
and see if they can help you.
Because Under Armour is on the show.
Urban Outfitters definitely can pay you.
Yeah.
Well, on the other side, he had a designer rip off
a photographer and take pictures of deer
and these blue-dirt shirts for browning firearms.
And so the designer ripped that off.
And then we got sued for it.
And it could have been like $500,000,
but it was only $50,000.
The photographer copyrighted it as a book, as a collection,
rather than individual images because they ripped up
pretty bad.
But it's still like, so I always tell students,
don't steal anything from money.
You're putting it out in the world that way.
Well, I think I skipped that part.
But even if you do like a drawing,
I mean like the Shepard Fairey's Obama poster,
the piece in that infringement was like,
even though he technically transformed it,
it was still like obviously recognizable.
So like doing a drawing in the photo.
It doesn't matter if you alter it that much.
Thanks again.
Yeah, I know that was great.
But I was just curious if you had that on your own side.
Yeah, I sued these guys for this.
It's different when it's this little thing.
It's a big-ass company that's making bank off your work.
Yeah.
Like I said, it was like, there were a few of my things,
but it was all like the same person just selling random
things.
Like coffee mugs.
I doubt they've sold any of these.
I don't think they'll be worth doing anything about this.
They might have bought a cup of coffee over there,
but it's not like they're paying their mortgage.
Awesome.
Thanks for your school year.
Nice to meet you.
Yeah.
It's a lot better, isn't it?
Yeah.
As I said, it takes about three or four years.
Three or four years.
Three to five years.
That's one spot where I like to pull a couple of those.
And then you've got your start in your career doing
that first or second.
