>> Hello, everyone. Are you guys ready? Ready for senior seminar? Yay! Great. Awesome. Whoops.
Let's see. Oh, okay. So we will start the class with introductions. I'm going to introduce
myself first. I'm Helene Choi. I'm a faculty in graphic design department. And Kristian,
would you like to introduce yourself? >> Yes. You all probably depressingly know
me already. So I'm Kristian, chair, helping run senior seminar. I have some of you in
advanced design as well. And I'm looking forward to this year.
>> Awesome. And we'll introduce our -- oh, before I go over that, whenever you guys are
e-mailing, make sure you guys e-mail both of us so that we can get back to you quicker.
>> Because there's two of us. So they're more likely to get a response if you e-mail both
of us and not just me. I have a lot of other people I have to pay attention to.
>> All right. We also have our supporters. Let me introduce our graduate teaching interns.
Sowmya, do you want to introduce yourself, what you're studying and your favorite fruit?
>> Hi, everyone. My name is Sowmya. I am in my second year of my graphic design. My favorite
fruit is an orange. >> Hi, I'm Sydney. I'm in the social design
program. And I think a kiwi is my favorite fruit.
>> Thank you. We're going to go over our syllabus and I'll try to make this quick. Let's read
our course description. I'm going to pass my microphone and you're going to read what
I'm going to show on the slide. Do you want to go first?
>> Sure. >> Students build their knowledge of design
through a mix of reading, writing, lectures and discussions.
>> Students deepen their vocabulary for discussing, evaluating and observing a broader range
of design practices such as branding, experience design, service design, information design,
and social design and design for sustainability. >> This course prepares students for framing
problems. >> This is a course on independent degree
projects supporting work that will take place during the spring semester.
>> Visiting artists provide presentations on special topics. Discussion groups to allow
students to develop writing skills and discuss topics in work.
>> Thank you. Now we'll go over learning outcomes.
>> (Inaudible) >> To evaluate and discuss conflicting ideas
and theories. >> Apply concepts and --
>> Demonstrate ability to -- >> Creative research fund based on the graphic
design theories. >> Awesome. Thank you.
>> Whenever there is a lecture, the first part of the class is always going to happen
in this room. And then after this lecture, you're going to go to your assigned room.
>> Do you remember your group? >> Is anybody allergic to their fruit?
>> I would make sure to check which group you belong to because after our lecture time,
you're going to go to your group assigned classroom. Discussion group meetings will
be offered in person at the assigned classroom. So keep in mind what time and where your group
is happening. Okay? Take a look at it. I know I swapped last minute so I would make sure
you remember the room number. So you guys can take a photo of the slide now so you can
always reference it later. >> It's also in the syllabus, always available
in the syllabus. >> Yes. Do you guys have any questions so far?
>> Probably show it to you every week also. >> Great. Everyone got their photo? Perfect.
And if you guys don't remember which group you belong to, I think Minseol, I saw you
shaking, I will check where you belong to. Okay? Great. And you know when you guys came
in, you guys signed up for your attendance, this is going to happen twice every week.
Once for the lecture and once for the group meeting. Okay? Let me ask you guys this. Who
do you email to if you need to miss the lecture and/or the discussion group? Who are you going
to email to? >> Good question.
>> Great. Yes. You must email both of us. You're going to be able to find your meetings
and assignments on canvas. And then you'll be able to find all major course assignments
in the syllabus documents. And this will be discussed multiple times through the semester.
You may use AI tools such as ChatJPT as part of the research and exploration, but you must
disclose the source of the text. So for example, let's say you create an image or you got a
text from ChatJPT, you're just going to say this text is generated from ChatJPT or this
image was generated from New Germany. And I would also encourage you guys to document
your prompt so that you get to share how your thought process evolved. Okay? Any questions?
You're expected to earn a hundred points in this semester. And 30 points are going to
be attendance. 40 points for assignments. So we have two different assignments. And
20 points are going to be for each assignment. And then we have 30 points for weekly exercises,
reading responses, and leading the discussion. Any questions? Okay. You will have opportunity
to earn extra credits. Five extra points for scheduling a visit to Decker Library to explore
index project references. Three points for leading the discussion more than once. Two
points for reading optional readings and reflecting on the weekly writing. If you miss more than
three calendar weeks for any reason, you failed the course. You guys are sitting here at MICA.
You already know the drill. If you must miss class, email Kristian and Haley ahead of
time for an excused absence and alternative assignments to maintain credit. Even so, do
not miss more than three weeks of meetings. If you are struggling to keep up with the
work, please message Kristian and Haley via email so that we can help you create a manageable
work plan. And if you are unable to post an assignment before the due date, please email
us so that we can plan an alternative submission date. We are here to support you guys. So
before you let us know if you have trouble with Canvas, send homework via email to us
and make sure to reach out to us before the due date. Okay. Let's go over our first project.
All right. You will be able to find the index project sheet under the syllabus document.
Let's see. Oh, no.
What is going on? Oh, that was an image. It was an image of the text. Okay. Hold on. For
real this time. Where did all the controls go? There they are.
And for that half letter size, 5.5 by 8.5 inch PDF file uploaded to Canvas. Even a link
to Google Drive or Dropbox, but uploaded to Canvas. A note. If you have a shape of size
that you want to use for meaningful design reasons, please deviate from these guidelines.
If you don't have a reason for using some other size of shape, just follow the format
instructions. So semiotic deviation, changing this format because it means something to
you. Don't do anything for no reason. You should only do things for a reason. That's
like a rule of graphic designing that you should follow.
If you have a thesis idea already, start there. Otherwise, brainstorm a few project ideas
that interest you, such as a poster series, a web app, or a brand identity system. Also
write down your areas of interest, like cooking, sustainability, or video games. Look for visual
trends and connections between them. Group them in random ways and build lists of terms
for these ideas and potential releases. Create an index with at least 26 entries. You can
include one term per letter, more than 26 terms, or not use every letter and just focus
on the right terms and design. Their index evolves as your ideas do throughout the term.
At the end of the project, you should have a tentative idea of the four thesis directions.
Write a project statement of about 150 words, framing it as "I am going to explore why
by doing B." Write a second short statement explaining what your thesis idea is not. Finally,
include a biography of at least 10 research sources. This is an ongoing project for the
school. October 24, it should involve and grow as the term goes on.
Use RMA to connect images and whatever else. It usually connects the links along with the
image, so it's helpful to find the source again after you didn't document it to begin
with. You could just connect them right in statement to make it easy to move things around
and immediately use them to mockups or presentations or whatever. Make sure you keep track of where
you got the images. Just paste the URL link along with the image in Figma.
You don't have to use Arena or Figma. Those are just our preferred tools. Whatever makes
it easy for you to collect things and know where you got them and find them again later,
use that to do the project. If I was going to do it, I would use Arena to do it. If you
haven't used Arena before, it's like Pinterest without all the garbage.
You don't have to read that part, sorry.
They pulled some books for us. If you go down the library stairs and take a right and then
walk past all the work tables, get to some mostly empty shelves, and you take a right
again, down at the very end, there's a door. Right by the door, there's one single shelf
with nothing else around it that has 20 books on it. Those are pulled to be examples of
designerly indexes and dictionaries in case you need help thinking about what you want
to make or what kind of things you want to draw on. We'll also put in here a list to
a spreadsheet that has even more other books that the library has that are different ways
of collecting and organizing things, basically.
Could you go back to the presentation?
To the presentation, sorry. Yes.
Awesome. Then we'll talk about the readings. There are going to be readings every week.
Where can I find my readings and assignments? Canvas, yes.
I'm good at this.
Thank you.
We need quizzes as we go.
If you go to Canvas, I wonder if this is going to work. Let's see.
Not here. Nope.
Arc browser, it's cool. It's here.
Did anyone already check out the Canvas readings? What do we have for next week?
Yes. Look at you. Great.
If you click on weekly writing on Semiotics, due Sunday, September 3rd, if you scroll down,
you'll be able to see required readings and optional readings.
If you click on the link, you'll be able to access the file.
Do you guys have any questions about this?
This one is a website, and this one is an actual PDF of the entire book.
If anyone asks, you just found it. Nobody illegally gave it to you like I did, actually.
Could you go back to the presentation?
Thank you.
There is a writing prompt for every week, and this is due before midnight on Sunday.
I would plan accordingly so that you can submit it before the due time.
And whenever your group leading person that week is going to be tracking your writing to prepare for the group.
Do you guys have any questions for us?
All right. I'm going to hand my microphone to Kristian so that he can start his lecture.
I recommend you guys to take notes because our assignment for next week is going to include what he's going to talk about.
Thank you.
I used some AI text image tools to make a lot of my slides, so I tried to follow the rules that we instructed you to use.
I included my prompt, and I said which tool is the tool that made the thing.
I'm personally like super in love with playing around with all these new tools.
If you haven't tried any of them, I mean, we're going to try to make you try them today for one little project.
But they should totally be in your toolbox of things to be able to mess around with.
So, for sure, just from like a professional practice perspective, the text to text, like the text help the help writing helper tools are just like so useful in making it much faster to generate things like emails or business letters or like bullet lists for your team at work.
There's no reason to not be using a lot of these things as long as you kind of understand how and the good rules for how to say that you use them.
But like the image ones too are just fun to see what the heck it tries to make, especially when you give it something that like isn't a known entity already, because the caveat with using any of these tools is that they can't do anything that doesn't already exist in mass on Earth.
So like they can't make an image, they can try, but they can't actually make an image that doesn't exist already, because they don't know what that is. And they can only make things that they already know.
You might find this to be a problem for the project that we asked you to do today.
The same with the text generators. They can't write things that aren't existing language. They can screw up and accidentally produce not existing language, but they can't purposefully do that.
So anyway, think about that when you're using these things. I try to use them for as many things as I possibly can, just because why not try the newest stuff, but just make sure that you then like check it if you're using it, the text from it.
And the more you already know about the thing, the more helpful these tools are to kind of like generate coherent, sensical, short, concise, helpful writing along with it.
Using tools potentially of the future today as well. Okay, so design for the future today. What do you picture when somebody says the future, like when you hear the future? Does anybody have like something that immediately comes to mind when I say the future?
The Jetsons. It's racist. Okay. There's only white people in that future. Sorry, I don't think that you're a racist. I just mean that is only a white version of the future.
But yeah, okay, what else besides the Jetsons? Anybody else? The future! What do you see? What's in your mind? Is it like Blade Runner? Is it Las Vegas with just like Hong Kong neon lights everywhere? Is it a desolate wasteland?
Is it everybody like is living in harmony and happy? What's the future? Well, I don't know why I have slides. Is it robots? Little happy helper robots?
What about like technology and nature somehow like merging together? Or like really cool cars made of stainless steel by defunct Detroit automakers? This is a DeLorean in case it's from Back to the Future. I suppose it's a real car.
Maybe it's like just the present, but we have cool glasses. Maybe that's like the future. Maybe we're in the Matrix. Maybe that's like what you think the future will hold.
Maybe it's Utopian where we're thinking like, oh, we can like happily live and coexist in like beautiful Lemon Grove domes. Or maybe it's like the bad dystopian future. There's a lot of versions of the future. This isn't even the future. This is the past. This is the wildfires in California from 2020 making the sky red.
Maybe it's the whole world living together. Maybe it's that humans just we evacuate and go to space. These are all kind of like other people's visions of the future.
And that was also like the future as a word is a hard word because it's one of these words that doesn't actually mean anything. It only means like what you wanted to mean in the moment. And it just means like anything that's next.
It's like when you call a plant a weed. That just means an unwanted plant. Calling something from the future just means it hasn't happened yet. It doesn't mean that it's real or that it's fake. It just means it hasn't happened yet.
And so that the future could be all kinds of things.
I asked mid journey what the future might look like. It showed me this.
It showed me this.
I particularly enjoyed this version of the future where it's just like a wildlife paradise.
And some crumbling weird skyscrapers.
But these all just look like science fiction book covers, right? So it's up to us to kind of really decide what the future actually is. And the cool part is as designers, you get to like make the stuff that can live in that potential future.
And so there's a whole genre of social science called future studies that tries to kind of think about how do we think about the future and how do we diagram out things to help others also think about the future.
Okay. So to think about the future, we have to start with thinking about time. And our kind of normal concept of time is that it's just an arrow that points off. In this case, the future is that way in my diagram.
So it's just pointing off towards the future. And it's some kind of linear thing.
And so with that, we know that there is a now. Like we're -- it's now now, okay? Now it's now again. It's now again. Okay.
But, you know, there's now. And then there's the past. And oftentimes the past is just sort of like a linear set of events that led us to -- that we can see as the past as like having led us to now.
And we don't still know what's in the future. And so that means that the future isn't just that way, but there's also like a range. There's like a potential.
And the farther and farther out we get into the future, the more and more -- like the wider the potential gets for like what could happen.
And then if you have ever studied relativity in physics, there's this concept called the light cone.
And so that any time there's a photon traveling in space that intersects with you, there's this sort of like range of area that it could have come from that would have let that photon end up exactly where you are.
But on the other side, if that photon keeps traveling, there becomes like a cone of possibilities for where that photon will end up.
And so the future cone is that idea that like we're now, and there's this now like three-dimensional space of possibility that's out in the future in front of us.
Maybe it's actually like a four-dimensional space. Or maybe it's like an 11-dimensional space. But it's at least not just a plane. There's a whole range.
Okay. So there's like more and less likely places in the future as well.
So I'm just going to give you the kind of like range of future possible.
There's the projected future, which is just if we do nothing and we just say I'm going to keep living exactly like today and just do that forever.
That's the projected future.
For the most part, that's like a bad future to kind of point towards. We probably don't want to just point towards like today moving forward forever into the future.
Then there's the probable future, which is sort of like the basic stuff that we're already doing that could improve people's lives.
We'll probably keep doing that and that will become like what's next. So in the present day, the probable future is that like all cars will be electric in most vehicles will be electric in the near and definitely distant future.
That's a prediction, but it's like a highly likely to come true prediction.
Then there's the plausible future, which is basically like with all the information that we know, all these things are plausible or possible.
But they become less and less likely as they get kind of like more fringe or more avant garde.
Then there's like the possible like, oh, we're probably going to figure this out, like small scale nuclear reactors we can build in research labs, but we haven't figured out how to build them to put on trucks and just like power cities wherever we want.
But it's like possible to presume that there's a future where tiny safe nuclear reactors are just scattered around your city or neighborhood.
It's also possible to make a completely renewable energy grid.
We just aren't quite there to figure it out, but it's like within the realm of the possible.
But then there's the preposterous and this is like things that are ridiculous or impossible or that people are just like that will never happen and often like things that will never happen eventually do still happen, but in the now, remember we're in the now now.
It's preposterous still.
This could also be like fantasy. It doesn't even have to be like that this could be real. It could be this is there's no way that this will ever be real.
Sometimes that's still helpful to think about.
And then there's more P words.
There's also the preferable future and that's like a subset of all possible futures, the probable and the preposterous that you personally prefer.
And so this is a different area for different people.
The one thing I would say is that I don't think anybody's preferable future is just the projected today into the future.
So I drew it on my diagram as like being at least a little bit away from the projected future.
But this is like the stuff that you want to happen or that should happen or that collectively we think ought to happen and this could still be fantasy and when it's fantasy, it's sort of like -- sorry, I'm just shining lasers on you over there.
When it's fantasy, it's sort of like whatever your kind of ideals are, you're kind of like projecting them off into that fantastical space.
Okay. So this all came from an academic Joseph Voros who writes and thinks and talks about this stuff a lot.
If you want to investigate this more on your own, you can find a lot of it on his website, the Voroscope.
Then I think the question then is why is it helpful if you're a designer to think more about the future?
And so I first was introduced to this idea reading this book called speculative everything, which is by these industrial designers Anthony Dunn and Fiona Rabi, they now teach at Parsons in New York, but they used to run an industrial design graduate program at the Royal College of Art in London.
And their kind of main way of making work is this idea that they call speculative design or they also refer to as critical design.
It's this idea that you can make design that is critical of the status quo and that it's easier for an audience to embrace because design -- the language of design is especially in our modern world is very familiar to most people.
So like objects and interfaces and tools and posters and books, advertisements, packaging, these are all things that we're -- I'm supposed to go home now.
Those are all things -- designed objects are all things that we use every day, and so they become like a much easier window into other ideas than like an art piece or like an experimental piece of music or something might be.
I think the reason film also investigates a lot of these issues is because film also is like a thing that's easy for people to kind of embrace and try to understand.
So Anthony Dunn and Fiona Robbie say that you can use your design skills to not make things for the status quo but to critique the status quo.
And if you -- so that's being critical. That's critical design.
And if you choose to use them to then speculate about other possible futures, you're making speculative design.
So design that like speculates how the future could be or should be or we want it to be, that could also then be critical of the futures that we like don't want to have happen.
And so you basically -- we're designing things in the present but they're critical of the projected future or designing things in the present that can lead us to the future that you prefer.
And all of this, though, is meant to be design that challenges the status quo.
So obviously if you're down with the status quo, that's also fine.
You wouldn't be making critical design. Maybe this doesn't interest you.
But I think everybody has something that they would prefer to have happen.
And so I think you can think about your design -- your designing as always being able to like envision these things that you would prefer and so we can like embrace and learn more about them in the present.
Okay. Yeah. And so maybe the best way to phrase this simply is just it's design that provides options for people.
Okay. I'm going to give you some examples of like in -- of actual artists and designers now doing things like this that I think clearly articulate how by thinking about the future and designing it in the present,
you actually shift then the future possibilities for the rest of us.
Because that's the thing about the future cone is like as now changes and that you also like move towards possible or improbable, once you've moved there, then it's not improbable anymore.
It's just like now the projected future.
Okay. So in 2007, Steve Jobs introduced the iPhone at one of the Apple conferences.
At the time, it didn't work yet.
All of the things they showed on stage were being like hacked together backstage by a team of developers and like tech people to make sure all the stuff that he was trying to show actually worked for the presentation.
So even though they're like actively making it and a few months later it's supposed to actually be available on store shelves, it's still -- the iPhone was still kind of like out in the realm of just the possible.
Because even though we could make it, there was still this question of like does anybody even want or need this device?
So like in the now of January of 2007, the iPhone is like a possibility. We know we can make it, but is anybody going to actually use it? Does anybody care?
And most of the naysayers were just like it doesn't fit into our projected future because nobody needs this thing.
Obviously, they were right.
Wait, hold on. We all have iPhones. So what happened is like it turns out they could make it. They did figure out how to make it all work.
And they were able to start selling it on time. And now this projected future is like gone. This is just like a truncated future line.
And we have a new projected future which has like a new future cone that opens up like things that used to be impossible are now like would fit into the possible of this new future cone.
And so we have like a different cone of the possible now moving forward. And every little like invention and ingenious change to culture or society of technology all kind of like subtly shift our possible future cone over time.
I mean, just think of like there's a famous Arthur C. Clarke quote, which is that like any sophisticated technology is basically indistinguishable from magic.
And so think of all the things that like different cultures in the past would have thought would just be like magical impossible things that would just be part of fantasy story that are now all the stuff that we just like live with every day.
Like even just like a car or that I can shoot a laser out of a tiny little plastic piece of junk that keeps taking me to the wrong things.
Okay. There we go. Okay. And now so that is like a business example of somebody building something that we can build with today's technology but like lives in kind of a slightly improbable place.
And that can shift the future cone. But you can also design fake pasts and fake presents that would lead us to a different set of possibilities.
So this is an artist named Curry Hackett and he's an architect and artist who works mainly out of DC but now has a lot of projects all over the place.
And he's using mid journey to sort of invent scenes that well he says he's inventing scenes of black leisure architecture and history.
And so this is his prompts are really fun to read it says an absurdly long charcoal grill hundreds of feet long stretching down the whole block black people having a block party in the street shot on color film.
So this is like an intended to be to look like it's real like this is a thing that could be happening in our in this alternate present. It's like a it's now but in a multiverse now.
These are some floating gardens in Detroit.
Or this is meant to be sort of like a near path of near fake past but this is meant to be set in Baltimore. I don't know if you can tell like mid journey I think kind of understands what Baltimore is supposed to look like.
So like farms on scaffolding right outside of their building.
This is like a party in Georgetown, where they have floating grills in the canal of Georgetown.
And so these are all these alternate paths and alternate presence that were like in Curry Hackett's view that the African Americans are were able to lead like a life that was much more positive and fulfilling for their culture.
And so if we think on the future cone then and this like idea of how do we get to these other preferable futures.
We don't just have to point our present to them, we can sort of say there are could have been these other past and futures, or and presence that would lead to that as a projected line.
And so if we think of Curry's sort of envisioned photos as living on this other timeline, they point to again like a much different future cone than we have on our present timeline.
And so when he's been like asked about these images, he's very always very clear to say these images aren't real that he's made them with mid journey, but he always asked this question when people ask him this like are those photos really says yeah but what they aren't but what if they were.
And so like what else does that like sort of enable us to make or to see or to do or to have different for all of us. If these were our real past.
Okay.
Does anybody have any questions.
Okay, so we want you to envision your preferable future, and not just for today but I think that's like a good way to think about like what kind of thesis project do you want to make in the with your time that's left.
How do you sort of like make the things that point towards your preferable future.
This is a.
If Vikings kept building cities in Norway.
That's one of my preferable futures.
But so if you can envision this future Can you just design the things from that future now. And that's not a prompt.
So long. That's to me that'd be a prompt for every single project you make that you ask yourself that not just for our class but like period like the rest of your life.
Every design thing you make, think about like, does this thing with this thing exists in my preferable future in my like desired future. And if the answer is no, then like maybe that's a reason not to make it.
That's a really easy thing to say it's like an idealist professor.
Okay, so these things don't have to be like wild and crazy and complicated to kind of point towards a preferable future. This is a friend of mine in Baltimore Graham Coray Allen and he runs a business called Graham projects.
And one of the main things that he's working on in Baltimore is doing these painted crosswalk or painted crosswalk and like walking signs.
And so this to me is something you can do in the immediate present.
But it usually like involves a school or the neighborhood itself and they participate in doing the project with Graham.
And it also envisions an urban fabric that pedestrianism is like prioritized over driving a car.
And to me that's a preferable city future that like it's safer and easier to walk and bike around places than it is to drive places.
This is a project in Copenhagen called Copenhagen Hill by the Bierke Angles group.
This is a trash incinerator.
It's a trash incinerator that's so clean and safe that it's also a park and a ski hill.
And it's not just this is the rendering of it, but it's built now.
And these are like actual human beings walking on it as a park.
Here's a guy actually skiing down it.
In the summertime it's got AstroTurf on half of the thing and it's like slicked with water and you can ski all the way down it still even during the summer.
And so that to me also is a thing that's in the present but like signals a preferable future.
Because this is Baltimore's trash incinerator.
Which future that this is from would you prefer to be in?
It's okay if you say this one I guess, but I won't hold it against you.
So that's an object, it's a design object in the present that makes it apparent a different way that we could like evolve our cities and evolve our energy infrastructure.
And like make all the things around people safe for people to be around.
This is not only kind of like an ugly eyesore, but it's also a hazard for all the people that live south of it.
Anyone that lives in the neighborhoods due south of the trash incinerator have like the highest rates of asthma in the city and the highest rates of lung cancer and the highest rates of heart disease.
So it's not only an eyesore but it's also like a health sore.
That's not a real word.
So anyway, so that to me is why we as designers should care about the future and care about like designing the future now.
Okay, here is a really quick mini documentary from Vox about a term called Afrofuturism.
So we'll just watch that really quick because this is another way that different artists and musicians have been using the same idea for decades now.
When people envision the future in art, most often it's seen through a white lens.
Only 8% of the 100 top-grossing sci-fi and fantasy films featured a protagonist of color.
Half the time the protagonist was Will Smith, but we're not all white or Will Smith.
The future looks different if you look at it through the lens of Black experiences.
That's why we have this thing called Afrofuturism.
The term was coined by culture critic Mark Derry in 1994 to point out the lack of Black writers and Black stories in science fiction.
But this kind of art existed long before the term Afrofuturism did.
Just look at music.
Jazz musician Sun Ra is probably one of the most recognizable Afrofuturists.
He lays out an Afrofuturistic design in his 1973 album Space is the Place, which you're listening to now, and also became a film.
The key is that his future was Afrocentric, linking his future self to ancient forebears and Egypt.
These ideas were more politically direct and a lot more funky in George Clinton's parliament during 1975.
In Mothership Connections, he connects the struggle of civil rights and We Shall Overcome to a positive future.
He not only references an old song from the Underground Railroad to escape slavery,
but he slipped the desperate history into a positive, futuristic ride of his spaceship as evidence the struggle is over and we've won.
So of course everybody wants to get on.
And people did get on.
Or at least some 90s hip hop heavyweights did.
But Afrofuturism also critiques the way the future looks today, like Andre 3000 did on his ATLian verse.
He wants his unborn kids to get the future they want, not the one society created for them because of race.
And that's why he takes pride in the difference.
And empowers black people to fight to get what's ours.
Because that's the thing about Afrofuturism. It's rooted in black people having a better future for ourselves on our terms, like Janelle Monae does in Queen.
This is a common thread of Afrofuturism. To overcome the current way society remains unequal, there needs to be futures where those problems are solved.
Afrofuturism shows us what that looks like. It looks like hope.
So we've got an exercise for you to do in the small groups today.
And I won't make you all read it to each other, but I guess we could do that again.
We'll do. OK. Imagine your preferable future.
Write a sentence or two, even a short paragraph that tries to describe what your preferable future includes.
This presentation links to stable diffusion or a site called mage space, which is free to use.
You just have to create. Well, you don't you don't even have to create an account. You can use it for free. It also uses stable diffusion.
But if you've already been playing around with these and you have like a dolly account or a mid journey account or ideogram account or an unstable diffusion account, whatever you have, it all is just meant to be an exercise.
So any text to image A.I. tool is what we're saying to use here. Try playing around with just keywords or longer form sentences.
How does the way you're describing your future change the way stable diffusion tries to render it?
Do the images you're returning, do your imagination justice, how would you visualize this future instead? Would it be easier to design an object yourself?
It's often easier to design an object yourself, but it's not as fun.
So these are like, yeah, these are just like links to the things.
And then you can read that groups like your group listing room and time. This will also take you to the list of groups on the on the.
I think.
OK, so if you're in group apple or orange or blueberry or lemon or Kiwi, you meet now.
Apples in here, oranges in three or four, blueberries in three or five, lemons in three or six and Kiwi's in three or eight.
If your group peach or pear or grape or mango or coconut, you meet at six or five.
That was awesome. Hey, good to see you.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So that's like kind of one of those and then they have to turn them in.
Yeah.
We'll have a little bit of.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
All right. Who's supposed to be here?
I mean, we'll be doing part of it in the class.
OK.
